Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)
Set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the cloud with just a few clicks.
Get started with Amazon RDS
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) makes it easy to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the cloud. It provides cost-efficient and resizable capacity while automating time-consuming administration tasks such as hardware provisioning, database setup, patching and backups. It frees you to focus on your applications so you can give them the fast performance, high availability, security and compatibility they need.
Amazon RDS is available on several database instance types - optimized for memory, performance or I/O - and provides you with six familiar database engines to choose from, including Amazon Aurora, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle Database, and SQL Server. You can use the AWS Database Migration Service to easily migrate or replicate your existing databases to Amazon RDS.
Understanding Amazon Relational Database Service (1:53)
Amazon RDS database engines
Benefits
Easy to administer
Amazon RDS makes it easy to go from project conception to deployment. Use the Amazon RDS Management Console, the AWS RDS Command-Line Interface, or simple API calls to access the capabilities of a production-ready relational database in minutes. No need for infrastructure provisioning, and no need for installing and maintaining database software.
Learn more
Highly scalable
You can scale your database's compute and storage resources with only a few mouse clicks or an API call, often with no downtime. Many Amazon RDS engine types allow you to launch one or more Read Replicas to offload read traffic from your primary database instance.
Available and durable
Amazon RDS runs on the same highly reliable infrastructure used by other Amazon Web Services. When you provision a Multi-AZ DB Instance, Amazon RDS synchronously replicates the data to a standby instance in a different Availability Zone (AZ). Amazon RDS has many other features that enhance reliability for critical production databases, including automated backups, database snapshots, and automatic host replacement.
Fast
Amazon RDS supports the most demanding database applications. You can choose between two SSD-backed storage options: one optimized for high-performance OLTP applications, and the other for cost-effective general-purpose use. In addition, Amazon Aurora provides performance on par with commercial databases at 1/10th the cost.
Secure
Amazon RDS makes it easy to control network access to your database. Amazon RDS also lets you run your database instances in Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC), which enables you to isolate your database instances and to connect to your existing IT infrastructure through an industry-standard encrypted IPsec VPN. Many Amazon RDS engine types offer encryption at rest and encryption in transit.
Inexpensive
You pay very low rates and only for the resources you actually consume. In addition, you benefit from the option of On-Demand pricing with no up-front or long-term commitments, or even lower hourly rates via our Reserved Instance pricing.
Featured RDS customers
View all Amazon RDS case studies
Featured RDS Partners
Apps Associate is an AWS Partner and Oracle expert who can migrate enterprise workloads to the cloud, freeing customers to focus on higher-value initiatives. Join our webinar to hear how Apps Associates helps customers move to Amazon Aurora.
Rackpace is an AWS Partner that can help you implement modern application development best practices with Amazon Aurora so you can keep pace with customer and business requirements. Read the ebook to learn how Rackspace helped TotalTrax automate processes and meet increasing demand.
Use cases
Web and mobile applications
Web and mobile applications that are built to operate at very large scale need a database with high throughput, massive storage scalability, and high availability. Amazon RDS fulfills the needs of such highly demanding applications with room for future growth. Since Amazon RDS does not have any licensing constraints, it perfectly fits the variable usage pattern of these applications.
Airbnb chose Amazon RDS because it simplifies much of the time-consuming administrative tasks typically associated with databases. Airbnb uses Multi-Availability Zone (Multi-AZ) deployment to further automate its database replication and augment data durability. Airbnb was able to complete its entire database migration to Amazon RDS with only 15 minutes of downtime.
Ecommerce applications
Amazon RDS offers small and large ecommerce businesses a flexible, secured, highly scalable, and low-cost database solution for online sales and retailing. Amazon RDS provides a managed database offering helping ecommerce companies meet PCI compliance and focus on building high quality customer experiences without worrying about managing the underlying database.
To avoid the complexities of building a new production database from scratch, Instacart turned to Amazon RDS for their new same-day grocery delivery service. The company can now add millions of new items to its database every month and its engineering team can focus on developing new features and improving the overall customer experience.
Mobile and online games
Mobile and Online games need a database platform with high throughput and availability. Amazon RDS manages the database infrastructure so game developers don’t have to worry about provisioning, scaling, or monitoring database servers. Amazon RDS provides familiar database engines that can rapidly grow capacity to meet user demand.
Bandai Namco Studios uses Amazon RDS to provide better performance, lower costs, better security, and greater availability for their arcade, social and mobile games. Bandai Namco saw the benefit in terms of reductions in overhead, especially when it came to adding, modifying, and removing server resources.
Check out the product features
Explore key features of Amazon RDS
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started with the  Amazon RDS Management Console.
Sign in