AWS Artifact
No cost, self-service portal for on-demand access to AWS’ compliance reports.
Get Started with AWS Artifact
AWS Artifact is your go-to, central resource for compliance-related information that matters to you. It provides on-demand access to AWS’ security and compliance reports and select online agreements. Reports available in AWS Artifact include our Service Organization Control (SOC) reports, Payment Card Industry (PCI) reports, and certifications from accreditation bodies across geographies and compliance verticals that validate the implementation and operating effectiveness of AWS security controls. Agreements available in AWS Artifact include the Business Associate Addendum (BAA) and the Nondisclosure Agreement (NDA).
You can access AWS Artifact directly from the AWS Management Console »
Get to know AWS Artifact
Benefits
Comprehensive resource
Agreement governance
Deep insights
Access all of AWS’ auditor issued reports, certifications, accreditations and other third-party attestations.
Review, accept, and manage your agreements with AWS. Apply your AWS agreements to all current and future accounts within your organization.
Perform due-diligence of AWS with enhanced transparency into our security control environment. Continuously monitor the security and compliance of AWS with immediate access to new reports.
AWS Artifact Reports
AWS Artifact Reports provides several compliance reports from third-party auditors who have tested and verified our compliance with a variety of global, regional, and industry specific security standards and regulations. When new reports are released, they are made available in AWS Artifact. For more information, go to the Compliance Reports FAQ page.
AWS Artifact Agreements
AWS Artifact Agreements enables you to review, accept, and manage agreements with AWS for an individual account, and for all accounts that are part of your organization in AWS Organizations. You can also use AWS Artifact to terminate agreements you have previously accepted if they are no longer required.
Watch the videos and get step-by-step guidance on accepting agreements.
Accept agreements for multiple accounts in your org (2:07)
Accept an agreement for your account (1:39)
Learn more about AWS Artifact
Visit the Getting Started page
Ready to build?
Get started with AWS Artifact
Have more questions?
Contact us