General
Q: Why should I use AWS Private 5G?
AWS Private 5G offers an easy way to leverage cellular technology to augment your current network. This can help you to increase reliability, extend coverage, or enable a new class of workloads such as factory automation, autonomous robotics, and advanced augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR) interactions.
Q: What do I get when I order AWS Private 5G?
You will receive all the AWS Private 5G hardware (including SIM cards) and software you need to deploy your private cellular network and connect devices to your applications. With a few API calls or a few clicks in the AWS Management Console, you can order the hardware that runs your radio and mobile core software (Core) network functionality, servers for on-premises operation, small-cell radio units for desired coverage, and subscriber identity modules (SIM cards) to insert into your devices. All components come preconfigured and can be operational within minutes of powering up.
Q: What spectrum does AWS Private 5G support?
By default, AWS Private 5G uses shared spectrum like Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) in the US.
Installation and operation
Q: What do I need to provide?
At a minimum, you need to provide 110-volt AC power outlets, public internet access, and basic networking services such as a pool of Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4) addresses and a dynamic host configuration protocol (DHCP) server to connect AWS Private 5G small-cell radio units with the AWS-provided compute infrastructure.
Q: Who is responsible for operating my network?
Operating a network on your premises is a shared responsibility. You are responsible for monitoring the physical sites where AWS Private 5G is deployed, and for keeping internet connectivity and power running. AWS provides and controls all the hardware, software, and network functions required to operate the network. Private 5G ensures that infrastructure and network functions are up to date and running the latest firmware, software, and security patches. The service also monitors ongoing operations and makes any changes needed to maximize performance and availability. AWS Private 5G can be monitored through a rich set of Amazon CloudWatch metrics, managed through the AWS Management Console or the APIs.
Q: Where can I find devices that work with AWS Private 5G?
The number of devices that support LTE and 5G has steadily increased over the past several years. A great place to start is the Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) Alliance, which developed the OnGo Certification Program with an up-to-date list of over 250 devices noted here. For licensed spectrum, device selection will depend on the specific spectrum offered by the partner CSP. AWS Private 5G also works with various devices that bridge between WiFi and cellular networks, extending support to devices that do not natively support SIMs.
Q: How do I add/remove devices to and from my network?
Once you insert the SIM card into your device, AWS Private 5G will automatically recognize the SIM and you can use the AWS Management Console or AWS Command Line Interface (CLI) to ensure that your devices have the right access to your network. Once on the network, Private 5G runs speed and validation tests, enforces access, and provides monitoring and alerting for full visibility into your network usage. As you add more devices and your connectivity needs grow, the service will ensure that your network support scales as needed.
Q: Can I use my private cellular network when it’s not connected to the AWS Region or in a disconnected environment?
Not at launch. Current CBRS Spectrum Access Systems (SAS) need their lease renewed every four minutes. And small-cell radio unit's connection to the AWS Region is required for periodic SAS grant renewals.
Q: Does AWS Private 5G support redundant deployment models to deal with local failures?
Yes. However, since Private 5G infrastructure resides on your premises, we have shared responsibility for redundancy. The service comes in simple building blocks to reliably run the network functions. If the power or network to Private 5G hardware are cut, so will the functionality of that hardware. However, the small footprint, low total cost of ownership (TCO), and the stack-ability of Private 5G lets you build as reliable a network as desired. You can organize your network into deployment units or cells where your local network is served by a series of Private 5G sites, each of which is responsible for a portion of the network. In this case, losing one cell would impact only that portion of the network. For custom deployments, you can connect redundant Private 5G devices to distinct infrastructure such as power supplies. AWS ensures that each deployment is connected to a different AWS Availability Zone to avoid shared fate with a single zone. You can decide the approach best suited for your workload needs and cost targets.
Q: How does AWS maintain Private 5G infrastructure?
AWS monitors all Private 5G hardware from the parent AWS Region and will automatically run software upgrades and patches. If there is a need to perform physical maintenance, AWS will reach out to schedule a time to visit your site. AWS may replace a given module as appropriate and will work with you to perform any other hardware or site-related maintenance.
Q: What type of AWS control plane information flows back to the parent AWS Region?
Information about the health and operational status of your infrastructure may be sent back to the parent AWS Region. This information allows AWS to provide alerts based on the health and capacity utilization of the compute infrastructure, and apply patches and updates to the AWS Private 5G hardware. When a device is disconnected, this information cannot be sent back to the parent Region.
FAQS