Amazon Location Service
Securely and easily add location data to applications
Get Started with Amazon Location Service
3 months free
with the AWS Free Tier
Amazon Location Service makes it easy for developers to add location functionality to applications without compromising data security and user privacy.
Location data is a vital ingredient in today’s applications, enabling capabilities ranging from asset tracking to location-based marketing. However, developers face significant barriers when integrating location functionality into their applications. This includes cost, privacy and security compromises, and tedious and slow integration work.
Amazon Location Service provides affordable data, tracking and geofencing capabilities, and native integrations with AWS services, so you can create sophisticated location-enabled applications quickly, without the high cost of custom development. You retain control of your location data with Amazon Location, and you can combine proprietary data with data from the service. Amazon Location provides cost-effective location-based services (LBS) using high-quality data from global, trusted providers Esri and HERE.
Introduction to Amazon Location Service (1:32)
Benefits
Privacy and security
With Amazon Location Service, you retain control of your organization’s data. Amazon Location Service anonymizes all queries sent to data providers by removing customer metadata and account information. Sensitive tracking and geofencing location information, such as facility, asset, and personnel locations, is processed and retained only in your account. This helps you shield sensitive information from third parties, protect user privacy, and reduce your application’s security risks. With Amazon Location Service, neither Amazon nor third parties have rights to sell your data or use it for advertising.
High-quality and cost-effective
Amazon Location Service provides high-quality geospatial data from established, global providers Esri and HERE. Application developers trust Esri and HERE’s data to route millions of vehicles and power hundreds of thousands of mobile applications and websites today. Now you can affordably build applications using their data through Amazon Location Service, along with tracking and geofencing capabilities that you don’t have to build in-house. Please visit our data providers' page and pricing page to learn more.
Simple access to location data
With the fully managed Amazon Location Service, integrating geospatial information into your application is as easy as calling the Amazon Location Service application programming interface (API). The API is consistent across LBS data providers, so you don’t need to learn and integrate multiple APIs to get the data you want for different use cases or geographies. To help you explore and try geolocation functions, the Amazon Location Service console includes a visual, interactive learning tool. You can get started quickly with the Amazon Location Service back-end and front-end software development kits (SDKs), sample code for tasks such as data visualization, and solution guides for asset tracking, geomarketing, and delivery.
Shorter time to production
Amazon Location Service helps you move applications from experimentation to production faster by providing integrations with Amazon CloudFormation, AWS CloudTrail, Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon EventBridge, AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM), AWS Key Management Service (KMS), and includes tagging functionality. Native integrations with AWS services provide you with built-in features from health and monitoring of your application, using existing security controls, to inclusion in event-driven architectures. With Amazon Location Service you can apply your organization's cloud best practices and avoid establishing new standards for additional vendors.
How it works
Use cases
Asset tracking
Asset tracking helps businesses understand the current and historical locations of their products, personnel, and infrastructure. Enterprises can use Amazon Location Service for asset tracking to secure en-route shipment, maximize dispatch efficiency, track equipment, and more. See the asset tracking solution guide.
Delivery
Location-based services help delivery applications store, track, and coordinate the source locations, delivery vehicles, and the destinations. For instance, a food delivery application built with Amazon Location Service can use location tracking and geofencing to automatically notify a restaurant when its designated delivery driver is nearby, to reduce the wait time of the driver, and help assure the freshness of the food when delivered. See the delivery solution guide.
User engagement & geomarketing
Businesses can use location data to better engage and market to their customers. For instance, Amazon Location Service can trigger an event that prompts a notification to a café when a customer who ordered a coffee on their mobile app is nearby. The café staff can then prepare the order in time. Similarly, retailers can use geomarketing to send discount codes or digital flyers to customers who are near stores. See the geomarketing solution guide.
Customer stories
“We’ve implemented Amazon Location Service in our IoT platform to track the movement of a quarter-million unique loading devices (ULDs), known as roller cages, which are a critical component of our logistical network,” said Sander Heije, Platform Owner Internet of Things, PostNL. “Previously, tracking ULDs in the network was difficult because we weren’t able to monitor the assets as they’re moved around and stored. With the implementation of Amazon Location Service, we can easily monitor our ULDs, which will generate important savings for our operation. We can now maximize ULD usage so they don’t sit idle and customers always have the right amount of ULDs in case they have a surge in deliveries. This real-time visibility to track and analyze assets with Amazon Location Service, especially at our scale, has spurred multiple initiatives to further optimize the logistics of our supply chain."
Learn more
“When we evaluated Amazon Location Service, we realized we can get the tracking capabilities we need, and also consolidate location-related infrastructure we were hosting on another provider,” said Dejan Milosavljevic, CEO and Co-Founder of MobileLog.
"Our DoD and intelligence community partners rely on us to deliver technologies that integrate cutting-edge AWS capabilities to enable mission success,” said Kevin Heald, VP, Information Exploitation at Novetta. “Amazon Location is a great example of a service that can be applied to accelerate and simplify solution development."
“Our development time from prototype to production was incredibly fast, the fact that Amazon Location Service integrates so well with other AWS services accelerated our development. Specifically, the integration with Amazon EventBridge which enables the event-driven architecture of the application to trigger an event when the trucks enter and exit the geofence. Additionally, because Amazon Location Service integrates with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM), that helped us set up permissions correctly and in the right order. Amazon Location Service will now be one of our ‘go-to’ AWS services when we need location functionality in our applications,” said Charles Evans, Chief Technology Officer at Command Alkon.
“Shortly after the launch of Amazon Location Service, our team jumped at the chance of migrating our existing map infrastructure for increased speed and reduction of cost in comparison to the service we were using. We are thrilled with the results, we saw a 28% improvement in tile load speed and a 50% decrease in cost compared to our previous provider,” said Nick Wills, Technical Director & Co-founder at Coolstays.
Check out product features
Learn more about Amazon Location Service
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started building with Amazon Location Service in the AWS Management Console.
Sign in