AWS Console Mobile Application
Stay connected to your AWS resources on-the-go
The AWS Console Mobile Application, provided by Amazon Web Services, lets you view and manage a select set of resources to support incident response while on-the-go.
The Console Mobile Application allows you to monitor resources through a dedicated dashboard and view configuration details, metrics, and alarms for select AWS services. The Dashboard provides permitted users with an overview of the account status, with real-time data on Amazon CloudWatch, Personal Health Dashboard, and AWS Billing and Cost Management. You can view ongoing issues and follow through to the relevant CloudWatch alarm screen for a detailed view with graphs and configuration options. In addition, you can check on the status of specific AWS services, view detailed resource screens, and perform select actions.
The Console Mobile Application requires an existing AWS account. Upon sign-in with a Root User, IAM User, or Federated Role the Console Mobile Application will store your credentials to easily switch between identities.
We regularly release updates with new features. Tell us what features you need and how you would use them with the Feedback feature of the Console Mobile Application. We're listening.
Operating systems
Console Mobile Application for iOS
Console Mobile Application for Android
New features
iOS users can now use Amazon API Gateway, AWS CloudTrail, AWS Identity and Access Management, AWS Lambda, and Amazon Simple Queue Service features on the Console mobile app. In addition, we have expanded Amazon CloudWatch capabilities to include logs.
Services
The Console Mobile Application for iOS supports Amazon API Gateway, AWS Billing and Cost Management, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudTrail, Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon DynamoDB, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Identity and Access Management, AWS Lambda, AWS OpsWorks, AWS Personal Health Dashboard, Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS), Amazon Route 53, Amazon Simple Queue Service features, Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC).
Regions
The Console Mobile Application for iOS supports US East (N. Virginia), US East (Ohio), US West (N. California), US West (Oregon), Asia Pacific (Mumbai), Asia Pacific (Osaka), Asia Pacific (Seoul), Asia Pacific (Singapore), Asia Pacific (Sydney), Asia Pacific (Tokyo), Canada (Central), EU (Frankfurt), EU (Ireland), EU (London), EU (Paris), EU (Stockholm), South America (Sao Paulo), Asia Pacific (Hong Kong), Middle East (Bahrain), Europe (Milan), and Africa (Cape Town).
Android users can now use Amazon API Gateway, AWS CloudTrail, AWS Identity and Access Management, AWS Lambda, and Amazon Simple Queue Service features on the Console mobile app. In addition, we have expanded Amazon CloudWatch capabilities to include logs.
The Console Mobile Application for Android supports Amazon API Gateway, AWS Billing and Cost Management, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudTrail, Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon DynamoDB, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Identity and Access Management, AWS Lambda, AWS OpsWorks, AWS Personal Health Dashboard, Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS), Amazon Route 53, Amazon Simple Queue Service features, Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC).
The Console Mobile Application for Android supports US East (N. Virginia), US East (Ohio), US West (N. California), US West (Oregon), Asia Pacific (Mumbai), Asia Pacific (Osaka), Asia Pacific (Seoul), Asia Pacific (Singapore), Asia Pacific (Sydney), Asia Pacific (Tokyo), Canada (Central), EU (Frankfurt), EU (Ireland), EU (London), EU (Paris), EU (Stockholm), South America (Sao Paulo), Asia Pacific (Hong Kong), Middle East (Bahrain), Europe (Milan), and Africa (Cape Town).
Requirements and recommendations
For security reasons, we recommend that you secure your device with a passcode and that you follow an AWS best practice by creating and using an IAM user's credentials to log in to the app. If you lose your device, an IAM user can be deactivated to prevent unauthorized access. Root accounts cannot be deactivated.
If you sign-in with an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user, you need to use either the account number or the account alias that was included in the email address from your administrator.
If you use AWS Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA), we recommend using either a hardware MFA device or a virtual MFA on a separate mobile device for the greatest level of account protection.