General
Q: What is Amazon Managed Grafana?
Amazon Managed Grafana is a fully managed service with rich, interactive data visualizations to help customers analyze, monitor, and alarm on metrics, logs, and traces across multiple data sources. You can create interactive dashboards and share them with anyone in your organization with an automatically scaled, highly available, and enterprise-secure service. With Amazon Managed Grafana, you can manage user and team access to dashboards across AWS accounts, AWS regions, and data sources. Amazon Managed Grafana provides an intuitive resource discovery experience to help you easily onboard your AWS accounts across multiple regions and securely access AWS services such as Amazon CloudWatch, AWS X-Ray, Amazon Elasticsearch Service, Amazon Timestream, AWS IoT SiteWise, and Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus.
Q: What is Grafana?
Grafana is an open source data visualization and operational dashboarding solution used by hundreds of thousands of organizations and millions of users. Grafana’s rich visualization library and broad support for multiple data sources makes it simple for customers to query, visualize, and alert on a wide variety of operational data, including metrics, logs, and traces in a single console. Amazon Managed Grafana provides fully managed Grafana workspaces compatible with the open source project and developed in partnership with Grafana Labs, parent company of the open source project.
Q: What is an Amazon Managed Grafana Workspace?
A workspace is a logically isolated Grafana server. Once you have created a workspace, you can integrate it with data sources and then query and visualize metrics from these data sources. You can create multiple workspaces per Region, per account, so that you can create isolated Grafana workspaces for monitoring your Prod and Dev workloads separately.
Q: How do I enable multi-account, multi-Region access to my AWS data sources?
Amazon Managed Grafana integrates with AWS Organizations to discover the AWS accounts and resources in your Organizational Units. Using AWS CloudFormation StackSets, Amazon Managed Grafana will automatically create the IAM policies needed to grant read-only access to your AWS Services data for the accounts and Regions you choose. Using the Amazon Managed Grafana console, you can easily add or remove accounts, Organizational Units, and Regions that you want to add to each Grafana workspace.
Q: When do I need Grafana Enterprise license?
Amazon Managed Grafana provides users access to open source Grafana features as well as enhanced features, such as single sign-on via SAML 2.0 and AWS Single Sign-On, audit logging, and team sync. If you need access to Enterprise data source plugins that are developed by Grafana Labs, then you will need to purchase a Grafana Enterprise license via AWS marketplace. This is a one-click process and can be done via the Amazon Managed Grafana console.
Q: How do I upgrade to Grafana Enterprise?
In the Amazon Managed Grafana console, you can select the workspace you’d like to upgrade to Grafana Enterprise. You can optionally upgrade one or more workspaces; each upgraded workspace will have access to Enterprise plugins. This enables you to query and visualize data from AppDynamics, Atlassian Jira, Datadog, Dynatrace, Gitlab, Honeycomb, MongoDB, New Relic, Oracle Database, Salesforce, SAP HANA, ServiceNow, VMware Tanzu Observability by Wavefront, and Snowflake.
Q: Is there CloudFormation support for creating Amazon Managed Grafana Workspaces?
This is not currently supported.
Q: Is there Terraform support for creating, editing, and deleting dashboards for Amazon Managed Grafana Workspaces?
Yes, Amazon Managed Grafana supports Terraform for dashboard management.
Q: What are the types of Grafana users?
There are three user types in Grafana: Administrators, Editors, and Viewers. Administrators have add, edit, and delete permissions to manage data sources, users, teams, folders, and dashboards. Editors have view, add, edit, and delete permissions to dashboards and alerts. Viewers can view dashboards to which they have been granted access, but cannot add, edit, or delete data sources, dashboards, or alerts.
Q: Which Grafana data source plugins are supported?
Amazon Managed Grafana provides native integration for multiple AWS Services, including Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus, Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon Elasticsearch Service, AWS IoT SiteWise, Amazon Timestream, and AWS X-Ray. Amazon Managed Grafana also supports plugins for other cloud providers, including Azure Monitor and Google Operations, and self-managed data sources such as Graphite, InfluxDB, and more. Directly from the Amazon Managed Grafana console, you can optionally upgrade to paid third-party, enterprise plugins made available with a Grafana Enterprise license purchase, which enables access to AppDynamics, Datadog, Dynatrace, MongoDB, New Relic, Oracle Database, ServiceNow, Snowflake, Splunk, and Wavefront. Reference the Amazon Managed Grafana User Guide for the full list of supported data source plugins.
Q: What are teams in Amazon Managed Grafana and why should I use them?
Teams provide a grouping mechanism to organize users in Amazon Managed Grafana. You can use teams to group individual users into entities that are granted access to shared resources such as dashboards, data sources, and alerts. Teams can also be mapped to your LDAP groups. With Team Sync enabled, you can keep team membership and user identities in sync with your Identity Provider's user directories such as Azure Active Directory, Microsoft Active Directory, CyberArk, Okta, OneLogin, and Ping Identity.
Pricing
Q: How is Amazon Managed Grafana priced?
You are billed monthly for the total number of active users that have logged in to each Grafana workspace, with a minimum of one Editor user license per workspace per month. There are two tiers of users: an Editor user price that can be assigned Administrator or Editor roles, and a Viewer user price that can be assigned a Viewer role. For detailed pricing information, please reference the Amazon Managed Grafana pricing page.
Q: What is an active user?
An “Active user” has logged in to an Amazon Managed Grafana workspace or made an API request at least once during a monthly billing cycle. Users who are provisioned with access to Grafana workspaces but have not used the service at least once in the monthly billing cycle will not be charged. If no users log into a workspace for a month, you will be billed for one minimum Editor user license per workpsace per month.
Q: Can I create multiple workspaces?
Yes, you can create multiple workspaces. Users are billed per workspace per month. For example, if User A belongs to both Workspace 1 and Workspace 2, User A will be billed for using Workspace 1 and separately billed for using Workspace 2.
Q: Will I be charged for API requests?
There are three types of API requests when working with an Amazon Managed Grafana workspace. The first type are Amazon Managed Grafana APIs that are used to create, edit, and delete workspaces. These do not incur charges. The second type are Grafana API keys that are used to manage workspace resources such as dashboards, alerts, and data sources are billed per API user license, and can be granted Administrator, Editor, or Viewer permissions. If multiple API keys are associated with the same API user license, then the higher price will be applied to the API user license. Charges for Grafana API user licenses will appear on your AWS bill under the Amazon Managed Grafana section. The third type are Amazon Managed Grafana data queries made to other AWS Services and third-party ISVs that may charge fees for using their APIs. These API fees are charged by the respective AWS service or third-party ISV and not charged by Amazon Managed Grafana. For example, a dashboard in Amazon Managed Grafana that contains CloudWatch metrics will make requests to Amazon CloudWatch, and this will incur API fees on your CloudWatch bill.
Q: How do I upgrade my Amazon Managed Grafana workspace to Grafana Enterprise?
You can optionally upgrade to Grafana Enterprise directly from the AWS Console, enabling you to access Enterprise plugins that connect to a wide variety of third-party ISVs, as well as access support and training directly from Grafana Labs. By upgrading to Grafana Enterprise, you can continue to use your existing Amazon Managed Grafana workspaces, and receive additional features in the upgraded workspace, all fully managed on Amazon Managed Grafana. If you decide to unsubscribe Grafana Enterprise from a workspace, this will disable Grafana Enterprise features for that workspace; however, you can continue to use the workspace and access Amazon Managed Grafana features.
Q: How will I be billed if I have both Amazon Managed Grafana and Grafana Enterprise?
You will receive one bill with your Amazon Managed Grafana usage, based on active Editor and active Viewer users per workspace per month. If you upgrade your Amazon Managed Grafana workspace(s) to Grafana Enterprise, you will see charges for Grafana Enterprise on your AWS Marketplace bill. Grafana Enterprise pricing is in addition to Amazon Managed Grafana's per Editor and per Viewer pricing.
Learn more about pricing
Learn more about pricing options for Amazon Managed Grafana.
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building on the console
Get started building with Amazon Managed Grafana in the AWS Management Console.
Sign in
FAQs