Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service
The most trusted way to run Kubernetes
Start using Amazon EKS
Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) gives you the flexibility to start, run, and scale Kubernetes applications in the AWS cloud or on-premises. Amazon EKS helps you provide highly-available and secure clusters and automates key tasks such as patching, node provisioning, and updates. Customers such as Intel, Snap, Intuit, GoDaddy, and Autodesk trust EKS to run their most sensitive and mission critical applications.
EKS runs upstream Kubernetes and is certified Kubernetes conformant for a predictable experience. You can easily migrate any standard Kubernetes application to EKS without needing to refactor your code.
EKS makes it easy to standardize operations across every environment. You can run fully managed EKS clusters on AWS. You can have an open source, proven distribution of Kubernetes wherever you want for consistent operations with Amazon EKS Distro. You can host and operate your Kubernetes clusters on-premises and at the edge with AWS Outposts and AWS Wavelength, and have a consistent cluster management experience with Amazon EKS Anywhere (coming in 2021.)
Important Links with Amazon EKS
Here's a list of resources you may find helpful:
Blog Highlight- Version Lifecycle Read more here >>
EKS Workshop Try it yourself>>
Latest Feature Releases Learn More >>
Benefits
Improve availability and observability
EKS runs the Kubernetes control plane across multiple AWS Availability Zones, automatically detects and replaces unhealthy control plane nodes, and provides on-demand, zero downtime upgrades and patching. EKS offers a 99.95% uptime SLA. At the same time, the EKS console provides observability of your Kubernetes clusters so you can identify and resolve issues faster.
Provision and scale your resources efficiently
With EKS managed node groups, you don’t need to separately provision compute capacity to scale your Kubernetes applications. You can also choose AWS Fargate to automatically provision on-demand serverless compute for your applications. For even more cost savings, EKS nodes on Amazon EC2 Spot instances reduce your cost for more efficiency.
Get a more secure Kubernetes environment
EKS automatically applies the latest security patches to your cluster’s control plane. AWS works closely with the community to address critical security issues and help ensure that every EKS cluster is secure.
How it works
Deploy applications with Amazon EKS in the cloud
Deploy applications with Amazon EKS Anywhere
Deploy applications with your own tools
Use cases
Hybrid Deployment
With EKS, you can more easily manage your Kubernetes clusters and applications across hybrid environments. Amazon EKS Anywhere (coming 2021) lets you run Kubernetes in your own data centers and on AWS. Amazon EKS Anywhere uses Amazon EKS Distro, the same Kubernetes distribution deployed by Amazon EKS in the cloud. You can put your EKS-run applications closer to the edge with AWS Local Zones and AWS Wavelength. You can also use EKS on AWS Outposts, a fully managed service that extends AWS infrastructure, AWS services, APIs, and tools to virtually any connected site.
Machine Learning
You can use Kubeflow with EKS to model your machine learning workflows and efficiently run distributed training jobs using the latest EC2 GPU-powered instances, including Inferentia. You can also use AWS Deep Learning Containers for running training and inferences using Kubeflow.
Batch Processing
You can run sequential or parallel batch workloads on your EKS cluster using the Kubernetes Jobs API. Using EKS, you can plan, schedule, and execute your batch computing workloads across the full range of AWS compute services and features, such as Amazon EC2, Fargate, and Spot Instances.
Web Applications
You can build web applications that automatically scale up and down and run in a highly available configuration across multiple Availability Zones. By running on EKS, your web applications benefit from the performance, scale, reliability, and availability of the AWS. Additionally, your services get out-of-the-box integrations with AWS networking and security services, such as Application Load Balancers for load distribution of your web application and VPC for networking.
Companies adopting Amazon EKS
Show more
Show less
What's new
date
1
...
See all announcements
Blog posts & articles
No blog posts have been found at this time. Please see the AWS Blog for other resources.
Learn more about Amazon EKS features
Visit the features page
Ready to build?
Get started with Amazon EKS
Have more questions?
Contact us