Products
Management & Governance
Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus
Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus FAQs
Q: What is Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus?
Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus is a serverless monitoring service for metrics compatible with open source Prometheus, making it easier for you to securely monitor and alert on container environments. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus is a service for monitoring containers based on the popular open source Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) Prometheus project. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus is powered by Cortex, an open source CNCF project that adds horizontal scalability to ingest, store, query, and alert on Prometheus metrics. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus reduces the heavy lifting required to get started with monitoring applications across Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service, Amazon Elastic Container Service, and AWS Fargate, as well as self-managed Kubernetes clusters. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus automatically scales as your monitoring needs grow. It offers highly available, multi-Availability Zone deployments, and integrates AWS security and compliance capabilities. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus offers native support for the Prometheus Query Language (PromQL) as well as the ability to ingest Prometheus metrics from over 150+ Prometheus exporters maintained by the open source community.
Q: Why should I use Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus?
You should use Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus if you have adopted an open source-based monitoring strategy, have already deployed or plan to adopt Prometheus for container monitoring, and prefer a fully managed experience where AWS provides enhanced security, scalability, and availability. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus is specifically architected to handle the high cardinality (large number of arbitrary tags) in monitoring data generated by container-based applications. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus manages the operational complexity of elastically scaling the ingestion, storage, alerting and querying of metrics to meet any customer’s demand while being 100% compatible with the open source CNCF-hosted project.
Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus offers a secure and highly available service that eliminates the need to manually deploy, manage, and operate Prometheus components. The service also seamlessly integrates with the new Amazon Managed Grafana service to simplify data visualization, team management authentication, and authorization.
Q: What is a Prometheus metric label?
The Prometheus data model identifies each time series with a name and any number of key-value pairs called labels. Labels can be used to differentiate the characteristics of what is being measured such as “region=us-east-1”, “environment=production”, and “app=ecommerce”. Labels are similar to AWS tags applied on resources, see reference guide for more details, or Dimension applied on CloudWatch metrics.
Q: How does this service relate to/work with other AWS services?
While it is based on the open source Prometheus project, Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus provides a fully managed AWS service integrated with other AWS services. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus is configured and managed from the AWS Console, API, and CLI. Authorization is controlled by IAM, policy control from AWS Organizations, and API calls are logged to AWS CloudTrail. Prometheus remote write can be configured to send metrics from your existing Prometheus server or AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry running in EKS and ECS, empowering you to easily enable your container workloads for Prometheus based monitoring. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus offers seamless integration with Amazon Managed Grafana for interactive data visualization.
Q: Can I get a history of Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus API calls made on my account for security analysis and operational troubleshooting purposes?
Yes. To receive a history of Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus API calls made on your account, you simply turn on CloudTrail in the AWS Management Console. The following API calls to ingest and query metrics in Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus are not recorded and delivered: remote_write, query, query_range, labels, label/{name}/values, series, and metadata.
Q: How does Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus relate to Amazon CloudWatch? Which one should I use?
Amazon CloudWatch is an AWS service that provides end-to-end observability across logs, metrics, and traces for applications running on EC2, AWS container services (EKS, ECS), Lambda, and other AWS services. Amazon CloudWatch can discover and collect Prometheus metrics, as CloudWatch metrics to provide options for our customers to query and alarm on Prometheus metrics. Amazon CloudWatch provides a comprehensive set of agents and libraries, custom and automatic dashboards, alarms, synthetic monitoring, and a service map view that enables cross correlation of logs, metrics, and traces. You should use Amazon CloudWatch if you are looking for a comprehensive observability service that brings together logs, metrics, tracing, dashboarding, and alerting in a unified experience that encompasses AWS services, EC2, containers, and serverless.
Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus is specifically optimized for monitoring container-based workloads. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus offers a Prometheus-compatible APIs for ingesting and querying your Prometheus metrics. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus is a metric-only service and does not collect logs or distributed trace data. You can export selected CloudWatch metrics to Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus in order to use PromQL as the common query language for querying and alarming on all your stored metrics. You should use Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus if you want a service that is fully compatible with the Prometheus open source project. You should also choose Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus if you are already running Prometheus and are looking to eliminate that ongoing operational cost while also improving security.
Q: What is Amazon Managed Grafana?
Grafana is an open source project for interactive data visualization used for monitoring and alerting that is commonly used with the Prometheus open source project. Amazon Managed Grafana is a fully managed service compatible with the open source Grafana project. Amazon Managed Grafana makes it simple for engineering teams to query, visualize, and alert on data sources such as metrics, logs, and traces, no matter where they are stored.
Q: How does Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus integrate with Amazon Managed Grafana?
Both services share AWS security services such as fine-grained access control and activity audit trails. Amazon Managed Grafana offers alerting capabilities, which can be used to alert on Prometheus metrics. Grafana empowers you to create dashboards and alerts from multiple sources such as Prometheus, Amazon CloudWatch, AWS X-Ray, Amazon Elasticsearch, and AWS Timestream.
Q: How does Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus relate to other popular open source observability and monitoring projects?
Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus is based on the popular Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) Prometheus project, and is powered by Cortex, another open source CNCF project, which adds horizontal scalability to ingest, store, query, and alert on Prometheus metrics. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus is committed to ongoing open source contributions and is working collaboratively with the community to improve the scale and reliability of this and other open source projects. Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus also uses AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry as a collection agent for Prometheus metrics.
Q: What does your Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus Service Level Agreement guarantee?
Our SLA guarantees a Monthly Uptime Percentage of at least 99.9% for Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus within a Region.
Q: How do I know if I qualify for a SLA Service Credit?
You are eligible for a SLA credit for Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus if the Region that you are operating in has a Monthly Uptime Percentage of less than 99.9% during any monthly billing cycle. For full details on all of the terms and conditions of the SLA, as well as details on how to submit a claim,  please see Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus Service Level Agreement.
Learn more about pricing
With Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus, there are no upfront fees or commitments.
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started building with Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus in the AWS Management Console.
Sign in