« Databases
Amazon MemoryDB for Redis
Redis-compatible, durable, in-memory database service for ultra-fast performance
Get started with Amazon MemoryDB for Redis
750 hours of MemoryDB on t4g.small instances
for 2 months with AWS Free Tier
Build applications quickly with Redis, Stack Overflow’s “Most Loved” database for five consecutive years.
Access data with ultra-fast performance — process more than 13 trillion requests per day and over 160 million requests per second.
Store data durably with in-memory storage that uses a Multi-AZ transactional log for fast database recovery and restart.
Scale seamlessly from a few gigabytes to over one hundred terabytes of storage per cluster to meet the needs of your application.
How it works
Use cases
Build web and mobile applications
Use versatile Redis data structures like streams, lists, and sets to build content data stores, chat and message queues, and geospatial indexes for demanding, data-intensive web and mobile applications that require low latency and high throughput.
Quickly access customer data for retail
Deliver personalized customer experiences and manage user profiles, preferences, and inventory tracking and fulfillment with microsecond read and single-digit millisecond write latency.
Develop online games
Build player data stores, session history, and leaderboards for gaming applications that require massive scale, low latency, and high concurrency to make real-time updates.
Stream media and entertainment
Run high concurrency streaming data feeds to ingest user activity and support millions of requests per day for media and entertainment applications.
Customers
Netflix builds microservices architectures to support its platform requirements
Twilio uses MemoryDB to enable over 105 billion messages a year
Cimpress simplifies its architecture to enable a faster pace of innovation
transACT streamlines customer migrations of mission critical applications
How to get started
Read about MemoryDB features
Discover the features page.
Learn more
Learn with a tutorial
Explore how to set up your first MemoryDB cluster.
Get started
Start building with MemoryDB
Check out the MemoryDB user guide to get started.
Read the documentation
Explore more of AWS