AWS X-Ray
Analyze and debug production, distributed applications
Get started with AWS X-Ray
AWS X-Ray helps developers analyze and debug production, distributed applications, such as those built using a microservices architecture. With X-Ray, you can understand how your application and its underlying services are performing to identify and troubleshoot the root cause of performance issues and errors. X-Ray provides an end-to-end view of requests as they travel through your application, and shows a map of your application’s underlying components. You can use X-Ray to analyze both applications in development and in production, from simple three-tier applications to complex microservices applications consisting of thousands of services.
100,000 traces recorded free
per month with the AWS Free Tier
Get started for free
Benefits
Review request behavior
AWS X-Ray traces user requests as they travel through your entire application. It aggregates the data generated by the individual services and resources that make up your application, providing you an end-to-end view of how your application is performing.
Discover application issues
With AWS X-Ray, you can glean insights into how your application is performing and discover root causes. With X-Ray’s tracing features, you can follow request paths to pinpoint where in your application and what is causing performance issues. X-Ray provides annotations so you can append metadata to traces, making it possible to tag and filter trace data so you can discover patterns and diagnose issues.
Improve application performance
AWS X-Ray helps you identify performance bottlenecks. X-Ray’s service maps let you see relationships between services and resources in your application in real time. You can easily detect where high latencies are occurring, visualize node and edge latency distribution for services, and then drill down into the specific services and paths impacting application performance.
Ready to use with AWS
AWS X-Ray works with Amazon EC2, Amazon EC2 Container Service (Amazon ECS), AWS Lambda, Amazon SQS, Amazon SNS and AWS Elastic Beanstalk. You can use X-Ray with applications written in Java, Node.js, and .NET that are deployed on these services.
Designed for a variety of applications
AWS X-Ray works for both simple and complex applications, either in development or in production. You can analyze simple asynchronous event calls, three-tier web applications, or complex microservices applications consisting of thousands of services. With X-Ray, you can trace requests made to applications that span multiple AWS accounts, AWS Regions, and Availability Zones.
How it works
Customers
Get started with AWS
Sign up for an AWS account
Instantly get access to the
AWS Free Tier.
Learn with 10-minute Tutorials
Explore and learn with
simple tutorials.
Start building with AWS
Begin building with step-by-step guides to help you launch your
AWS project.
Learn more about AWS X-Ray
Visit the features page
Ready to build?
Have more questions?
Contact us