Amazon Kendra
Highly accurate intelligent search service powered by machine learning
Get started with Amazon Kendra for Free
Amazon Kendra is an intelligent search service powered by machine learning (ML). Kendra reimagines enterprise search for your websites and applications so your employees and customers can easily find the content they’re looking for, even when it’s scattered across multiple locations and content repositories within your organization.
Using Amazon Kendra, you can stop searching through troves of unstructured data and discover the right answers to your questions when you need them. Amazon Kendra is a fully managed service, so there are no servers to provision and no ML models to build, train, or deploy.
750 hours free
for 30 days with the AWS Free Tier
Get started for free
Get better answers upfront using natural language
Use natural language questions in addition to simple keywords to get the answers you’re looking for. Amazon Kendra will return an exact answer from within a document, whether it’s a text snippet, FAQ, or PDF document. Instead of sifting through long lists of documents to find specific answers, Amazon Kendra also provides suggested answers up front. See the difference between the search experience before and after Amazon Kendra.
Benefits
Find relevant answers, quickly
Say goodbye to sifting through long lists of links and scanning documents hoping that one has the information you need. Unlike conventional search technology, natural language search capabilities return the answers you’re looking for quickly and accurately, no matter where the information lives within your organization.
Learn more
Centralize access to knowledge
Using Amazon Kendra, you can easily aggregate content from content repositories such as Microsoft SharePoint, Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3), ServiceNow, Salesforce, and Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) into a centralized index that lets you quickly search all of your enterprise data and find the most accurate answer.
Fine-tune search results
Amazon Kendra’s deep learning models come pretrained across 14 industry domains, allowing it to extract more accurate answers across a wide range of business use cases. You can also fine-tune search results by manually adjusting the importance of data sources, authors, or freshness, or by using custom tags.
Deploy with just a few clicks
Setup is quick, giving you faster access to Amazon Kendra’s intelligent search capabilities compared to setup times for conventional search solutions. With just a few clicks, you can easily configure an index, connect relevant data sources, and deploy a fully functional and customizable search interface without any coding or ML experience.
Use cases
Accelerate research and development
Scientists and developers leading new research and innovation need access to information from prior work that’s buried within their corporate data stores. With faster, more accurate search, they spend less time searching and more time innovating.
Minimize regulatory and compliance risks
Use ML to quickly identify and interpret regulatory policies published across hundreds of diverse websites so you can improve policy enforcement and compliance processes.
Improve customer interactions
Whether it’s through Q&A chatbots, agent-assist, or customer web search, Amazon Kendra better understands what your customers are asking and provides more-relevant answers and intuitive experiences.
Increase employee productivity
By unifying and indexing content from diverse, disparate, and multi-structure information silos across the organization, enterprises can build and maintain a single active knowledge catalog for all employees. With this centralized view, users can quickly search and access the most relevant information across any knowledge source to make more informed decisions.
Customers
Accelerating material science research
“When our material scientists lead new research, they need access to information from prior relevant research—information that’s buried in the many patents we hold in our huge knowledge base... Kendra lets our scientists find the information they need by handling natural language queries quickly and accurately.”
View customer story
Building a secure and scalable agent-assist solution
“We chose Amazon Kendra to build a secure and scalable agent-assist solution. This helped call center agents, and the customers they serve, quickly uncover the information they need. Since implementing Contact Center Intelligence (CCI) and Amazon Kendra, early results show an average reduction in call times of about 9-15 seconds, which saves over 4k hours on over 2.2 million calls per calendar year.”
Faster access to information in our knowledge base
"Amazon Kendra finds the answer to questions like ‘What is the length of the pipeline at Pluto?’ quickly and accurately. This step-change in cognitive capability will enable even better, faster decision-making to improve our operations and the working lives of our people.”
Get started with Amazon Kendra today
Reimagine search for yourself. With Amazon Kendra, you can now connect your own data sources and start testing the search experience on your own content in minutes.
Start your Amazon Kendra journey in the AWS Management Console
Step 1: Create an index
Create an index where you'll add your data sources.
Step 2: Add data sources
Use Kendra's connectors for popular sources like S3, SharePoint, Salesforce, ServiceNow, RDS databases, One Drive, and many more coming later this year.
Step 3: Test and deploy
Test the search experience directly in the console. Plus, access sample code for each component of the search experience so you can easily deploy it to new or existing applications.