AWS Direct Connect
Get started with AWS Direct Connect
AWS Direct Connect is a cloud service solution that makes it easy to establish a dedicated network connection from your premises to AWS. Using AWS Direct Connect, you establish a private connection between AWS and your datacenter, office, or colocation environment. This can increase bandwidth throughput and provide a more consistent network experience than internet-based connections.
AWS Direct Connect is compatible with all AWS services accessible over the Internet, and is available in speeds starting at 50 Mbps and scaling up to 100 Gbps.
AWS Direct Connect & hybrid network architecture (32.52)
Benefits
Consistent network performance
AWS Direct Connect links to all your AWS resources, transferring data directly from your datacenter, office, or colocation environment into and from AWS. With AWS Direct Connect, you choose the data that utilizes the private connection and how that data is routed, which can provide a more consistent network experience than internet-based connections.
Protect data in transit
Ensure communication between your data center, branch office, or colocation facility is protected by taking advantage of Direct Connect encryption options. 10 Gbps and 100 Gbps connections offer native IEEE 802.1AE (MACsec) point-to-point encryption at select locations. AWS Site-to-Site VPN connections using IPsec (IP security) are also available and can be used with any AWS Direct Connect connection.
Lower your bandwidth costs
For bandwidth-heavy workloads, AWS Direct Connect may reduce your network costs into and out of AWS. By transferring data to and from AWS directly, you may be able to reduce your bandwidth commitment to your internet service provider. And, all data transferred over your dedicated connection is charged at the reduced AWS Direct Connect data transfer rate rather than internet data transfer rates.
Flexible connection options
Multiple connection speeds and delivery options are available in order to support a wide range of connectivity scenarios. Dedicated Connections create a link to AWS using a 1 Gbps, 10 Gbps, or 100 Gbps Ethernet port. Hosted connections are provided by AWS Direct Connect Partners using pre-established network links between themselves and AWS and are available from 50 Mbps up to 10 Gbps.
Getting started with AWS Direct Connect
AWS Direct Connect locations worldwide
With 108 Direct Connect locations around the world, and more than 50 Direct Connect delivery partners, you can establish links between your on-premises network and AWS Direct Connect locations no matter where you are located.
Find a location
Use cases
Hybrid connectivity
AWS Direct Connect helps you build hybrid environments that satisfy regulatory requirements that require the use of private connectivity. These types of hybrid environments allow you to combine the elasticity and economic benefits of AWS and continue to utilize your existing infrastructure.
Real-time applications
Applications that use real-time data feeds benefit from using AWS Direct Connect. Applications such as voice and video perform best when network latency remains constant. Network latency over the internet can vary given that the internet is constantly changing how data gets from point A to point B. With AWS Direct Connect, you control how your data is routed, which can provide a more consistent network experience over Internet-based connections.
Working with Large Data Sets
Transferring large data sets over the internet can be slow when your business critical network traffic must compete for bandwidth with other network traffic. To decrease the amount of time required to transfer your data, you could increase the bandwidth to your internet service provider, which frequently requires a costly contract renewal and a minimum commitment. With AWS Direct Connect, you can transfer your business critical data directly from your datacenter, office, or colocation environment into and from AWS bypassing your internet service provider and removing network congestion.
Customer stories
“CrowdStrike is excited to use AWS’s encrypted Direct Connect solution. We use Direct Connect extensively and continue to be impressed with the responsiveness of AWS, and their ability to rapidly deliver features and resources for our hybrid cloud network. Direct Connect's MACsec support increases the number of ways we can raise the security bar for our customers.”
- Alan Hannan, Vice President of Engineering at CrowdStrike
Learn more about AWS Direct Connect
Visit the features page
Ready to build?
Have more questions?
Contact us