AWS Fargate
Serverless compute for containers
Get started with AWS Fargate
AWS Fargate is a serverless compute engine for containers that works with both Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS). Fargate makes it easy for you to focus on building your applications. Fargate removes the need to provision and manage servers, lets you specify and pay for resources per application, and improves security through application isolation by design.
Fargate allocates the right amount of compute, eliminating the need to choose instances and scale cluster capacity. You only pay for the resources required to run your containers, so there is no over-provisioning and paying for additional servers. Fargate runs each task or pod in its own kernel providing the tasks and pods their own isolated compute environment. This enables your application to have workload isolation and improved security by design. This is why customers such as Vanguard, Accenture, Foursquare, and Ancestry have chosen to run their mission critical applications on Fargate.
National Australia Bank (NAB) is one of the largest financial institutions in Australia and offers a wide array of personal banking financial solutions to its customers.
“By removing the need for infrastructure management, we expect AWS Fargate for Amazon EKS to reduce our development costs on new projects by 75%. Over the next 12 months, migrating to AWS Fargate for Amazon EKS will enable 100 NAB service teams with a managed microservices-based platform to break down 50 monolithic applications into modern architectures.”
Steve Day, EGM of Infrastructure Cloud and Workplace, NAB
Benefits
Deploy and manage applications, not infrastructure
With Fargate, you can focus on building and operating your applications whether you are running it with ECS or EKS. You only interact with and pay for your containers, and you avoid the operational overhead of scaling, patching, securing, and managing servers. Fargate ensures that the infrastructure your containers run on is always up-to-date with the required patches.
Right-sized resources with flexible pricing options
Fargate launches and scales the compute to closely match the resource requirements you specify for the container. With Fargate, there is no over-provisioning and paying for additional servers. You can also get Spot and Compute Savings Plan pricing options with Fargate just like with Amazon EC2 instances. Compared to On-Demand prices, Fargate Spot provides up to 70% discount for interrupt-tolerant applications, and Compute Savings Plan offers up to 50% discount on committed spend for persistent workloads.
Secure isolation by design
Individual ECS tasks or EKS pods each run in their own dedicated kernel runtime environment and do not share CPU, memory, storage, or network resources with other tasks and pods. This ensures workload isolation and improved security for each task or pod.
Rich observability of applications
With Fargate, you get out-of-box observability through built-in integrations with other AWS services including Amazon CloudWatch Container Insights. Fargate allows you to gather metrics and logs for monitoring your applications through an extensive selection of third party tools with open interfaces.
How it works
What's New
date
date
1
…
…
See all announcements »
Customers using AWS Fargate
How Turner migrated to Fargate for its containerized apps
Datree achieved operational efficiency with Fargate
Machine Learning with AWS Fargate and AWS CodePipeline
Catalytic's parallelized bioinformatics on Fargate
How KPMG deployed microservices to Fargate
Highly Available Grafana running on AWS Fargate
Aaptiv improving continuous integration with AWS Fargate
Samsung built a secure developer portal with Fargate
Talroo used AWS Fargate to improve application scaling
Harry's reduced operational overhead with Fargate
How 99designs used Fargate for their containerized apps
Veritone built real-time AI with AWS Fargate
Skywatch uses Fargate to process satellite data
Other customers using AWS Fargate
Blog posts & articles
date
date
1
…
…
Learn more about AWS Fargate pricing
Visit the pricing page
Ready to build?
Get started with AWS Fargate
Have more questions?
Contact us