Amazon Polly
Turn text into lifelike speech using deep learning
Get started with Amazon Polly
Amazon Polly is a service that turns text into lifelike speech, allowing you to create applications that talk, and build entirely new categories of speech-enabled products. Polly's Text-to-Speech (TTS) service uses advanced deep learning technologies to synthesize natural sounding human speech. With dozens of lifelike voices across a broad set of languages, you can build speech-enabled applications that work in many different countries.  In addition to Standard TTS voices, Amazon Polly offers Neural Text-to-Speech (NTTS) voices that deliver advanced improvements in speech quality through a new machine learning approach. Polly’s Neural TTS technology also supports two speaking styles that allow you to better match the delivery style of the speaker to the application: a Newscaster reading style that is tailored to news narration use cases, and a Conversational speaking style that is ideal for two-way communication like telephony applications.  Finally, Amazon Polly Brand Voice can create a custom voice for your organization. This is a custom engagement where you will work with the Amazon Polly team to build an NTTS voice for the exclusive use of your organization. Learn more here.
Listen to Amazon Polly’s Newscaster voice »
Listen to Amazon Polly’s Conversational voice »
5 million characters free
per month for 12 months with the AWS Free Tier
Create an Account to Get Started with Amazon Polly »
Language
Female
Male
Sample Text
English
Joanna (Standard) Joanna (Neural)
Matthew (Standard)  Matthew (Neural)
Hello. Do you speak a foreign language? One language is never enough.
Brazilian Portuguese
Vitória
Ricardo
Oi. Você fala algum idioma estrangeiro? Somente um idioma nunca é bastante.
Danish
Naja
Mads
Hej. Taler du et fremmed sprog? Et sprog er aldrig nok.
French
Léa
Mathieu
Bonjour. Parlez-vous une autre langue que le français? Une langue n'est jamais assez.
Japanese
Mizuki
Takumi
こんにちは、外国語を話せますか？ 世界にはたくさんの言語があります。
Korean
Seoyeon
안녕하세요? 외국어를 구사하십니까? 이 세상에는 수많은 언어들이 있답니다.
Mandarin Chinese
Zhiyu
你好，你会不会说其他外语？只会一种语言是不够的。
Spanish
Penélope
Miguel
Hola. ¿Hablas algún idioma extranjero? Un solo idioma no es suficiente.
Check our full list of Amazon Polly voices and supported languages here.
Benefits
Natural sounding voices
Amazon Polly provides dozens of languages and a wide selection of natural-sounding male and female voices. Amazon Polly's fluid pronunciation of text enables you to deliver high-quality voice output for a global audience.
Store & redistribute speech
Amazon Polly allows for unlimited replays of generated speech without any additional fees. You can create speech files in standard formats like MP3 and OGG, and serve them from the cloud or locally with apps or devices for offline playback.
Real-time streaming
Delivering lifelike voices and conversational user experiences requires consistently fast response times. When you send text to Amazon Polly’s API, it returns the audio to your application as a stream so you can play the voices immediately.
Customize & control speech output
Modify Amazon Polly voices to best suit your needs – Amazon Polly supports lexicons and SSML tags which enable you to control aspects of speech, such as pronunciation, volume, pitch, speed rate, etc.
Low cost
Amazon Polly’s pay-as-you-go pricing, low cost per character converted, and unlimited replays make it a cost-effective way to voice your applications.
Use cases
Content Creation
Audio can be used as a complementary media to written and/or visual communication. By voicing your content, you can provide your audience with an alternative way to consume information and meet the needs of a larger pool of readers. Amazon Polly can generate speech in dozens of languages, making it easy to add speech to applications with a global audience, such as RSS feeds, websites, or videos.
Example: Convert an article to speech and download as MP3
“Amazon Polly gives GoAnimate users the ability to immediately give voice to the characters they animate using our platform. This is especially helpful in scenarios where live voice-over is either resource or time prohibitive, such as when developing a video in many languages or within pre-production to speed the approval process. The speech is integrated seamlessly with our rich set of pre-animated assets, which reinforces GoAnimate’s ease-of-use and affords our customers both efficiency and speed to market.”
– Alvin Hung, CEO and founder, GoAnimate
Refer to case study >>
E-learning
Amazon Polly enables developers to provide their applications with an enhanced visual experience such as speech-synchronized facial animation or karaoke-style word highlighting. Amazon Polly makes it easy to request an additional stream of metadata with information about when particular sentences, words and sounds are being pronounced. Using this metadata stream alongside the synthesized speech audio stream, customers can animate avatars and highlight text as it is currently spoken text in their app.
Example: Play speech and highlight spoken text
“I can't think of many use cases where accurate pronunciation is more important than when you're learning a new language. We have found that the Amazon Polly voices are not just high in quality, but are as good as natural human speech for teaching a language.”
– Severin Hacker, CTO, Duolingo
Read their blog post >>
Telephony
With Amazon Polly, your contact centers can engage customers with natural sounding voices. You can cache and replay Amazon Polly’s speech output to prompt callers through interactive voice response (IVR) systems, such as Amazon Connect. Additionally, you can leverage Amazon Polly’s API to deliver automated real-time information such as service status, account and billing inquiries, addresses, and contact information.
Example: Text-to-speech for telephony systems
“Bandwidth built a small, reliable, and fast TTS application that is backed by Amazon Polly. We are now using high-quality voices at low cost. The developer effort required to build this new service was surprisingly minimal.”
– Yiannis Philipopoulos, Sr. Software Developer, Bandwidth
Read their blog post >>
Learn more about Amazon Polly
Visit the features page
Ready to build?
Get started with Amazon Polly
Have more questions?
Contact us