AWS Managed Services
Operate your AWS infrastructure on your behalf
Contact Sales for more information
As enterprise customers move towards adopting the cloud at scale, some find their people need help and time to gain AWS skills and experience. AWS Managed Services (AMS) operates AWS on your behalf, providing a secure AWS Landing Zone, features which help you meet various compliance program requirements (HIPAA, HITRUST, GDPR, SOC, ISO, PCI), a proven enterprise operating model, on-going cost optimization, and day-to-day infrastructure management. By implementing best practices to maintain your infrastructure, AWS Managed Services helps to reduce your operational overhead and risk. AWS Managed Services automates common activities, such as change requests, monitoring, patch management, security, and backup services, and provides full-lifecycle services to provision, run, and support your infrastructure. AWS Managed Services unburdens you from infrastructure operations so you can direct resources toward differentiating your business.
National Australia Bank and Thomson Reuters Share Their Enterprise Transformation Journey
Benefits
Improve your Security and Enable Your Compliance
AWS Managed Services offers a step-by-step process for extending your security and identity perimeter in the cloud, while providing features which help you meet various compliance program requirements (HIPAA, HITRUST, GDPR, SOC, NIST, ISO, PCI, FedRAMP). This process includes the critical tasks of Active Directory integration, security onboarding and customer control mapping. Our rigor and controls help to enforce your corporate and security infrastructure policies, and enable you to develop solutions and applications using your preferred development approach.
Accelerate Migration to the Cloud
AWS Managed Services provides an enterprise-ready, proven operating environment, enabling you to migrate production workloads in days versus months. Working with partners and AWS Professional Services, AMS leverages the minimum viable refactoring approach of making only necessary modifications to your applications to meet security and compliance requirements. AMS then takes responsibility for operating your cloud environment post migration, such as analyzing alerts and responding to incidents, enabling your internal resources to focus on the more strategic areas of your business.
Remove Innovation Barriers
Enterprise DevOps is the convergence of modern development best practices (i.e. DevOps) and existing IT process frameworks (i.e. ITIL) to give you speed and agility while maintaining governance, security, and compliance control. AMS enables Enterprise DevOps by packaging AWS IaaS services into a secure development platform that works with most enterprise workloads – not just cloud-native or heavily refactored workloads, and provides features which help you meet various compliance program requirements (HIPAA, HITRUST, GDPR, SOC, NIST, ISO, PCI). AMS-powered Enterprise DevOps helps your development teams focus on their applications and innovate faster.
How it works
Case studies
“AWS Managed Services helped us create an AWS Landing Zone environment where we could migrate applications at scale. We didn't have to spend months, possibly years, creating that. We could begin migration straightaway. Security is also a high priority for customers, and AMS provides 100 percent patching and backup compliance for the services it manages giving our customers a high level of trust that we can maintain their data and their financial products in a much more secure way." Read the case study and watch the video.
Steve Day, Executive General Manager of Infrastructure, Cloud, and Workplace
"Working with AWS Managed Services, we were able to release cloud versions of our software platform on AWS less than four months after engaging and win more than 10 new cloud customers in the first two quarters.” Read the case study.
Dan Ortolani, Senior Vice President for Worldwide Customer Services, Information Builders
"With the aid of AWS Managed Services (AMS), Sallie Mae met its deadline to go all-in on cloud services, but that wasn’t the end of the process. AMS helped the bank to automate patching, which has cut downtime by 25 percent. In addition, Sallie Mae now can add resources on the fly to support additional site traffic, such as during the summer peak season, when students and their parents most actively seek school-financing options. The infrastructure is there when we need it and can be returned once our seasonal demand diminishes." Read the case study.
Mike Bandy, Vice President of Infrastructure and Operations, Sallie Mae