General
Q: What is AWS Panorama?
AWS Panorama is a new machine learning Appliance and SDK, that allow organizations to bring computer vision to their on-premises cameras to make automated predictions with high accuracy and low latency. With AWS Panorama, companies can use compute power at the edge (without requiring video streamed to the cloud) to improve their operations, by automating monitoring and visual inspection tasks like evaluating manufacturing quality, finding bottlenecks in industrial processes, and assessing worker safety within their facilities.
Q: What is the AWS Panorama Appliance?
The AWS Panorama Appliance is a hardware device that you can install on your network to connect to existing cameras within your facility, to run multiple computer vision models on concurrent video streams. The AWS Panorama Appliance allows you to deploy CV applications to the edge when low latency and data privacy are required, and internet bandwidth is limited. The AWS Panorama Appliance gives you the ability to add CV to your existing IP cameras, and automate tasks that traditionally required human inspection and monitoring. The AWS Panorama Appliance, when installed in a network, can discover, connect to, and process video from networked cameras and run simultaneous machine learning models per stream. Your cameras do not need any built-in machine learning or “smart” capabilities, as the Appliance provides the CV. Dust proof and water-resistant, you can install the Appliance in different environments without compromising functionality. Learn more
AWS customers and partners can get started building and testing CV applications with the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit by signing up for the preview. Sign up for the preview
Q: What is the AWS Panorama Device SDK?
The AWS Panorama Device SDK is a Software Development Kit (SDK) for third-party manufacturers to run sophisticated computer vision models on their cameras, allowing hardware vendors to build new devices that are enhanced with computer vision for object detection or activity recognition. Using the Appliance, or cameras running the Device SDK, computer vision can help companies accomplish tasks like evaluating manufacturing quality, finding bottlenecks in industrial processes, or counting patrons in retail stores, even in environments with limited internet connectivity. The AWS Panorama Device SDK provides you with a device software stack for computer vision, sample code, APIs, and tools to enable and test your AWS Panorama-enabled devices for AWS Panorama service. Device manufacturers including ADLINK Technology, Axis Communications, Basler AG, Lenovo, STANLEY Security, and Vivotek are using the AWS Panorama SDK and APIs to build new AWS Panorama-enabled cameras and appliances, taking advantage of leading silicon solutions from NVIDIA and Ambarella. AWS Panorama enabled devices work out of the box with AWS ML services and software and can be managed, monitored, and updated in the AWS management console. Learn more
Q: How can I improve business operations with AWS Panorama?
A: You improve your business operations with AWS Panorama in three steps. First, identify the process you want to improve with computer vision. Second, develop CV models with Amazon SageMaker or use pre-built models from AWS or third-parties. If you need CV expertise, take advantage of the wealth of experience that the AWS Panorama partners bring. Third, get started now with the Preview and evaluate, develop, and test your CV applications with the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit.
Q: How can I get access to AWS Panorama?
The AWS Panorama Appliance will be available for purchase in 2021 to deploy in production environments. You can get started building and testing CV applications with the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit. Sign up here for the Preview
You can also purchase AWS Panorama-enabled devices from third-party manufacturers in 2021. Device manufacturers can build new AWS Panorama-enabled devices (for example cameras or gateways devices), with the AWS Panorama SDK by reaching out to an AWS sales representative. Learn more
Q: How does edge computer vision work with AWS Panorama?
A: The AWS Panorama Appliance gives you the ability to add CV to your existing IP cameras, and to automate tasks that traditionally required human inspection and monitoring. The AWS Panorama Appliance, when connected to a network, can automatically discover, connect to, and process video from networked cameras. You can bring your own CV models, such as those built with Amazon SageMaker or use pre-built models from AWS or third-party application providers, and create CV applications by combining the CV models and business logic using the AWS Panorama management console. You can then deploy these applications to the AWS Panorama Appliance and run simultaneous CV applications per video stream, turning your existing onsite cameras into powerful edge CV devices and generate highly accurate predictions within milliseconds. Dust proof and water-resistant, the AWS Panorama Appliance can be used in harsh environments to improve your business operations.
Q: Why should I use AWS Panorama instead of processing machine learning inference in the AWS Cloud?
A: Many customers face challenges improving their physical systems, whether it be increasing manufacturing quality, ensuring safety or operating compliance of their facilities, or gaining insight about customer behavior inside retail locations. To do this today, customers have employees monitor live video of the facility or equipment, or they review recorded footage after a problem or incident has occurred. These methods are manual, error prone, and difficult to scale. Customers have begun to take advantage of computer vision models running in the cloud to automate these inspection tasks, but there are circumstances when relying exclusively on the cloud isn’t optimal due to latency requirements or intermittent connectivity that make a round trip to the cloud infeasible. You can use AWS Panorama to support scenarios that have low latency or local data processing requirements, and in locations that may not have reliable network bandwidth or connectivity. AWS Panorama customers typically need to generate near real-time responses to end user applications or need to communicate with other on-premises systems or control on-site equipment such as for automated operations in manufacturing, crowd density monitoring in airports, worker safety in warehouses, extracting text from vials in labs, and quality assessment is production lines and factory floors.
Q: Why should I use AWS Panorama instead of developing an edge computer vision solution using other AWS services?
A: While customers can take advantage of AWS Services and use them as building blocks to develop a custom edge computer vision deployment solution, AWS Panorama offers an integrated edge-to-cloud workflow making it easy to build, manage, and deploy computer vision solutions. AWS Panorama removes the heavy lifting from each step of the computer vision process by integrating with familiar AWS services such as AWS SageMaker so you can build and train your CV models easily. The AWS Panorama Appliance enables you to run your CV models directly on the device (at the edge), right where the data is created, meaning you can get access to real-time predictions even in remote and isolated places where network connectivity can be slow, expensive, or intermittent. AWS Panorama application results can be integrated with on-premises line of business applications for automation and can be routed to services such as Amazon S3, Amazon Kinesis Video Streams or Amazon CloudWatch for deriving actionable insights to drive process improvements
Ordering and availability
Q: How can I purchase the AWS Panorama Appliance?
A: The AWS Panorama Appliance will be available for purchase in 2021 to deploy in production environments. Today, you can build and test your CV models and applications with the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit. Sign up here. You can deploy the same CV applications tested on the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit to the AWS Panorama Appliance, enabling you to move from pilot projects to production deployments.
Q: What happens after I sign up to purchase the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit in Preview?
A: After you have signed up for the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit Preview, we will review all requests and reach out to you with information to finish your purchase as devices become available. Learn more about AWS Panorama pricing here
Q: In which countries will the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit be available?
A: The AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit can be shipped to and installed in the following countries:
North America – US, and Canada.
Support for more countries coming soon.
Q: Can I order the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit to a country where AWS Panorama has not launched and link it back to a supported Region?
A: No, we can deliver the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit only in countries where AWS Panorama is supported.
Q: In which regions is AWS Panorama available?
A: AWS Panorama is available now in the AWS management console, and is supported in the following regions:
US East (N. Virginia)
us-east-1
US West (Oregon)
us-west-2
Support for more regions coming soon.
Q: How can I start developing AWS Panorama applications?
With AWS Panorama we offer computer vision examples that you can find in this Github repository. These examples illustrate how you can develop AWS Panorama applications for popular use cases such as object detection, semantic segmentation, and image classification. These examples are available as Jupyter notebooks that come with a fully functioning Python code and includes detailed commentary showing how you can use the AWS Panorama Application SDK APIs across multiple use cases. You can execute these examples using an Amazon SageMaker Jupyter Notebook instance and develop a complete AWS Panorama application. You can also easily copy the code into a Lambda function to create an application from your AWS Panorama management console and deploy it to your AWS Panorama Appliance Development Kit.
Q: How can I build an AWS Panorama-enabled device with the AWS Panorama Device SDK?
A: For device manufacturers interested in building new AWS Panorama-enabled devices (for example cameras or gateways devices to meet customer needs), with the AWS Panorama SDK (Software Development Kit), reach out to your AWS sales representative. Learn More about the AWS Panorama SDK here
Getting started & installation
Q: How can I get started with the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit?
Once you receive the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit, you can follow the AWS Panorama documentation, connect the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit to the network and register it to your AWS account. The AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit, once online, will auto-discover IP cameras on your network; you can review the discovered video feeds and name/group them in the management console, select models, build applications, integrate with their business logic, and deploy them to your AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit. Once deployed, the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit will run the machine learning inference locally, to enable near real-time on-device predictions. Based on the deployed business logic, events such as successful object recognition can trigger on-device AWS Lambda functions to call AWS services or other local APIs for integration with your line of business applications to derive quick, actionable insights. For more information refer AWS Panorama resources page For more information refer AWS Panorama resources page
Q: Are there any prerequisites for deploying the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit at my location?
A: Your site must support the basic power and network connection to install the AWS Panorama Appliance (or other AWS Panorama-enabled devices). The AWS Panorama Appliance has an integrated power supply 50-60Hz 100-240VAC with IEC 60320 C6 3-pin connector and comes with Ethernet/LAN ports (2x Ethernet 1000 Base T ports) and supports an operating temperature in the range of -20°C to 60°C, with physical Appliance dimensions at 197mm x 243mm x 40mm (7.75” x 9.6” x 1.6”) with a weight of 3.7lbs (1.7kg). The AWS Panorama Appliance has an IP-62 rating and can be either rack mounted or left free-standing. You can use the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit for evaluation, development, and testing purposes. It is not intended for production use. Learn More AWS Panorama Terms page
Q: Can I use AWS Panorama when it is not connected to the AWS Region or in a disconnected environment?
A: AWS Panorama is a fully managed service and relies on periodic connectivity to the parent AWS Region to receive updates. We recommend that customers connect the device back to their AWS Region periodically to receive Over-The-Air (OTA) software updates. Once your CV applications are deployed on the device, you can get access to real-time predictions even in remote and isolated places where network connectivity can be slow, expensive, or completely non-existent such as remote factory locations.
Security, privacy, & compliance
Q: What security is enabled with the AWS Panorama Developer Kit?
A: The AWS Panorama Appliance Development Kit helps with development of your computer vision applications for evaluation, testing, development, and building pilot projects or proof-of-concepts. The Appliance Developer Kit is not intended for production use. The Appliance Developer Kit has root access enabled, which provides full control over the device and data in the device. Customers are responsible for the physical and logical network security of the AWS Panorama Appliance Development kit. Connecting the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit to a sensitive or isolated network and an internet-connected network simultaneously is not recommended. Customers are also responsible for securely operating the network-attached cameras used in connection with the kit, and keeping device and camera software updated. For more details, refer AWS Panorama security documentation.
Q: Can AWS Panorama be used to meet data privacy and sovereignty requirements?
A: AWS Panorama may help you to address your data privacy and sovereignty requirements. With AWS Panorama, you have control to ensure that sensitive data stays on your premises. For real-time predictions with the AWS Panorama Appliance, the video streams do not leave the device on your premises. Control plane data (e.g. instance IDs, monitoring metrics, metering records, tags, etc.) will flow back to the AWS Region. You can also use AWS CloudTrail, where you can log, continuously monitor, and retain your account activity related to your actions with AWS Panorama. Together these features address many of the data privacy and sovereignty requirements we hear from our customers. You should confirm with your own compliance team or advisors to address whether these features help you to meet any residency and/or sovereignty requirements you may have.
Q: Do the same compliance certifications for AWS Services that exist today apply for services on AWS Panorama?
A: No, the existing certifications for AWS Services are applicable to services running entirely in an AWS Region. AWS Panorama Appliance and AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit go through a separate evaluation for certifications. The AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit can be used in compliance with GDPR. We expect to add more compliance certifications for the AWS Panorama Appliance. Compared to the certification for other AWS services, with AWS Panorama, the customer owns the responsibility for physical security and access controls around the AWS Panorama Appliance and the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit with respect to compliance certifications.
Support & maintenance
Q: Who can I contact if I encounter problems with the AWS Panorama Development Kit?
A: If you have AWS Premium Support, you can file a support request with AWS support. If you do not have AWS premium support, you can ask questions on the AWS Panorama developer forums.
For questions regarding shipping status, payment, or returns, you can use the following links to get support from the site you ordered from: Amazon.com Support or Amazon Business Support.
Q: How does AWS maintain infrastructure or updates to AWS Panorama Development Kit?
A: For customers who purchase the AWS Panorama Appliance Developer Kit, AWS will provide periodic Over-The-Air software updates. If there is a need to perform physical maintenance, you should contact AWS Support, or the AWS Panorama partner that installed your AWS Panorama Appliance. AWS, or your AWS Panorama partner, may replace a given module as appropriate but will not perform any host or network switch servicing on customer premises, unless otherwise arranged through your statement of work or other operational agreement. Learn more about AWS Panorama warranty terms here
Learn more about pricing
Visit the AWS Panorama pricing page.
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started building with AWS Panorama in the AWS Management Console.
Sign in
Page Content
Ordering & availability