Amazon Simple Email Service
High-scale inbound and outbound cloud email service
Get started with Amazon SES
Amazon Simple Email Service (SES) is a cost-effective, flexible, and scalable email service that enables developers to send mail from within any application. You can configure Amazon SES quickly to support several email use cases, including transactional, marketing, or mass email communications. Amazon SES's flexible IP deployment and email authentication options help drive higher deliverability and protect sender reputation, while sending analytics measure the impact of each email. With Amazon SES, you can send email securely, globally, and at scale.
Introducing Amazon Simple Email Service (1:09)
Benefits
Integrate quickly
Using either the Amazon SES console, APIs, or SMTP, you can configure email sending in minutes. Amazon SES also supports email receiving, enabling you to interact with your customers at scale. Regardless of use case or sending volume, you only pay for what you use with Amazon SES.
Optimize your deliverability
Use the reputation dashboard, which includes account performance insights and anti-spam feedback, to maximize your deliverability. You have flexible deployment options that range from shared, dedicated, and customer-owned IPs that helps you influence your sending reputation. Amazon SES has relationships with experts like M3AAWG to improve delivery to your customers through industry best practices.
Send messages efficiently
Email sending statistics, including email deliveries, bounces, and feedback loop results, help you to measure the effectiveness of each email outreach. Additional insights like email open or click-through rates measure how engaged your customers are in your email communications.
Scale securely
Amazon SES authentication options such as Sender Policy Framework (SPF) and DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) confirms your right to send on behalf of your domain. Virtual private cloud (VPC) support makes email sending from any application secure. Amazon SES is globally available with HIPAA eligibility, in-region compliance (C5, IRAP) and global certifications (Fed-Ramp, ISO, GDPR).
Use cases
Transactional emails
Send immediate, trigger-based communications from your application to customers, such as purchase confirmations or password resets.
Marketing emails
Promote your products and services such as special offers and newsletters, with customized content and email templates.
Bulk email communication
Send bulk communications, including notifications and announcements, to large communities, and track results using configuration sets.
Featured customers
Learn about how Reddit uses Amazon SES to drive end-user engagement across millions of global users.
Learn more
Hear about how Netflix increased email deliverability, inbox placement and sender scores using Amazon SES.
Learn about how Duolingo uses Amazon SES to help over 300 million users learn a new language.
Top blog posts
Handling bounces and complaints April 23, 2020
Learn more »
Forward incoming email to an external destination Oct 8, 2019
Learn more »
Introducing email templates and bulk sending Oct 11, 2017
Check out the product features
Visits the Amazon SES features page.
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started building with Amazon SES in the AWS Management Console.
Sign in