AWS Outposts
Run AWS infrastructure and services on premises for a truly consistent hybrid experience
Get started with AWS Outposts
Contact Sales
AWS Outposts is a fully managed service that offers the same AWS infrastructure, AWS services, APIs, and tools to virtually any datacenter, co-location space, or on-premises facility for a truly consistent hybrid experience. AWS Outposts is ideal for workloads that require low latency access to on-premises systems, local data processing, data residency, and migration of applications with local system interdependencies.
AWS compute, storage, database, and other services run locally on Outposts, and you can access the full range of AWS services available in the Region to build, manage, and scale your on-premises applications using familiar AWS services and tools.
Outposts is available as a 42U rack that can scale from 1 rack to 96 racks to create pools of compute and storage capacity. Coming in 2021, Outposts will be available in two smaller form factors, 1U and 2U rack-mountable servers for locations with limited space or capacity requirements. More information on the smaller Outposts form factors is available here.
A VMware variant of AWS Outposts will also be available soon. VMware Cloud on AWS Outposts delivers a fully managed VMware Software-Defined Data Center (SDDC) running on AWS Outposts infrastructure on premises.
AWS Outposts overview and how it works (2:45)
AWS Outposts Use Cases (0:59)
Outposts provides a truly consistent hybrid cloud experience
Common Use Cases
Industry Examples
Low-latency compute
Interactive applications, like real-time, multi-player games require low latency to deliver a high-quality gaming experience wherever players may be located in the world. Business applications, such as manufacturing execution systems (MES), high-frequency trading, and medical diagnostics also require single-digit millisecond latencies to operate effectively. When the nearest public cloud servers are not close enough to meet application latency requirements, Outposts can help you run applications where you need them to be located.
Local data processing
Some local datasets can't be easily migrated to the cloud for processing due to cost, size, bandwidth, or timing constraints. Outposts allow you to process data locally, while keeping your data lakes and ML training in a region. With Outposts, you can setup a consistent hybrid cloud architecture to process data on premises and easily move data to the cloud for long-term archival.
Data residency
Sometimes, data needs to remain in a particular country, state, or municipality for regulatory, contractual, or information security reasons – as is often the case with financial services, healthcare, oil & gas, and other highly-regulated industries. With Outposts, you can control where your workloads run and where your data resides, while using local operational tooling, for things like monitoring and stability. It also allows low-friction movement of workloads between public cloud and the edge, and vice versa, so you can easily adapt to any regulatory changes.
Migration & Modernization
When trying to migrate to the cloud and modernize your stack, some workloads can be challenging – often times, there is a long tail of legacy, on-premises applications that are difficult to move from on-premises to the cloud due to latency-sensitive system interdependencies between the various components of the application. As dependencies arise, segmenting these migrations into smaller pieces requires latency sensitive connectivity between various parts of the application. Outposts eases and accelerates the migration journey by allowing you to modernize applications latency-sensitive interdependencies on premises, and then easily migrate the application to the cloud when ready.
Manufacturing automation
Use AWS services to run manufacturing process control systems such as MES and SCADA systems and applications that need to run close to factory floor equipment. Seamlessly integrate these on-premises applications with services running in the AWS Region for centralized operations.
Healthcare
Easily apply analytics and machine learning AWS services to health management systems that need to remain on premises due to low latency processing requirements. Enable rapid retrieval of medical information by storing data locally on Outposts.
Telecommunications
Use cloud services and tools to orchestrate, update, scale, and manage the lifecycle of Virtual Network Functions (VNFs) across cloud and on premises. Build new network services and deploy virtual network functionality wherever you need to, using the same AWS tools you use today.
Media & entertainment
Access the latest GPU innovations on premises for graphics processing, audio and video rendering, and for running other media applications. Support live and real-time event streaming applications that require low latency by running those applications in on-premises locations close to end users.
Financial services
Build next-generation trading and exchange platforms that serve all participants at low latency using AWS services and programming interfaces. Deliver banking, payments processing, and risk management services to customers and financial clients from in-country locations to meet data locality requirements.
Online games and game streaming
Online games and game streaming depend on low latency to preserve the user experience. Outposts allows you to place your game servers closer to your end users – providing better performance for the most demanding games.
Benefits
Run AWS Services on premises
With AWS Outposts you can run Amazon EC2, Amazon EBS, Amazon S3, container-based services such as Amazon EKS, database services such as Amazon RDS on AWS Outposts and analytics services such as Amazon EMR on premises. You can seamlessly extend your Amazon Virtual Private Cloud on premises and run some AWS services locally on Outposts and connect to a broad range of services available in the local AWS Region. You can use the same AWS APIs, tools, and security controls to run, manage, and secure your applications on premises just as in the cloud.
Store and process data on premises
AWS Outposts allows you to securely store and process customer data that needs to remain on premises or in countries where there is no AWS region. This may help address requirements of companies in highly regulated industries and or those located in countries with data residency requirements.
Truly consistent hybrid experience
AWS Outposts delivers a truly consistent hybrid experience by offering the same hardware infrastructure, services, APIs, management, and operations on premises as in the cloud. Unlike other hybrid solutions that require use of different APIs, manual software updates, and purchase of third-party hardware and support, Outposts provide a truly consistent developer and IT operations experience across on premises and cloud environments.
Fully managed infrastructure
AWS Outposts is fully managed and supported by AWS. Your Outpost is delivered, installed, monitored, patched, and updated by AWS. With Outposts you can reduce the time, resources, operational risk, and maintenance downtime required for managing IT infrastructure.
How it works
Customer reference
"With Outposts, I can develop applications, deploy them on the same infrastructure on-premises, and managed with the same tools, providing the same view end-to-end to both our care providers and IT administrators, with over 70,000 servers and distributed across 1,200 locations.”
Rich Ridolfo, Sr. Director, Operations
Philips: AWS Outposts Customer Testimonial (1:33)
Morningstar is a leading provider of independent investment research around the globe.
“Our independent data, research, and solutions empower investor success by delivering insights and experiences that are essential to investing. As we continue to modernize our data collection and software, we want to create a containerized hybrid infrastructure and easily deploy using AWS services. With AWS Outposts, we can build once and run applications on-premises and easily migrate our applications to an AWS Region where possible. Ultimately, this allows us to accelerate the adoption of cloud technologies within our development teams, keep up with accelerating business and customer needs, and support our long-term journey to the cloud.”
James Rhodes, Chief Technology Officer, Morningstar
Morningstar: AWS Outposts Customer Testimonial (2:28)
First Abu Dhabi Bank is the largest bank in UAE offering corporate, investment, and personal banking services.
"First Abu Dhabi Bank (FAB) is the UAE’s largest bank and one of the world’s largest and safest financial institutions, offering corporate, investment, and personal banking services. It was important to us to deliver digital banking services, including e-wallet and mobile payments, to our customers, whilst keeping customer data secure and resident in the UAE. Multiple AWS Outposts in the UAE allow us to provide business continuity whilst leveraging the same API’s and services running locally as in the AWS Region, to accelerate the pace of our innovation.”
Yuri Misnik, Group Chief Technology Officer, FAB
Tipico, a leading gaming operator offers safe, secure digital and mobile betting entertainment.
"Tipico is one of the biggest sports betting and online gaming platforms in the German-speaking market and in Europe. Running our complete workload in Europe on AWS since 2018, we expanded to the US market and opened our first hub in New Jersey in 2019. To comply with US regulations and as established by the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement, we migrated our services to AWS Outposts. Outposts lets us ensure compliance with the residency standards, while leveraging the same expertise, common code, and APIs that we had created in the public AWS cloud. This lets us accelerate introduction of new feature offerings, be more nimble, and adapt quickly to market changes."
Thorsten Hanf, Head of Enterprise Operations, Tipico
DXC Technology, the number one provider of core insurance systems, helps insurers build a digital future while transforming their legacy businesses.
“At DXC, we pride ourselves in delivering innovative insurance solutions. We tested DXC’s Assure Digital Platform on AWS Outposts and are pleased with the consistent performance results for managed on-premises workloads. DXC is excited to bring a truly consistent hybrid cloud experience on-premises with AWS Outposts for our customers who need to meet stringent data residency requirements and a more flexible cloud journey."
Brian Bacsu, Digital Insurance Platform Engineering and Operations, DXC Technology
NOS is the biggest communications and entertainment group in Portugal.
“This relationship reflects NOS’ commitment to offer the most innovative and advanced services to the Portuguese business community. No one has any doubt that cloud computing is one of the main drivers of the digital transformation of companies. This is the start of a range of initiatives with AWS that will allow NOS to develop and consolidate its positioning as a benchmark supplier of Cloud and Edge Computing solutions to the B2B market.”
Manuel Ramalho Eanes, Board Director of NOS
"WWT is a technology solutions provider serving the needs of enterprise, public sector, and global service providers , including many of the world's best-known brands. Many of our customers require hybrid cloud as part of their overall cloud strategy. AWS Outposts allows us to build solutions for these customers as it addresses their specific use case requirements around data residency, application latency, local processing, and application modernization. Utilizing our highly adaptable Advanced Technology Center (ATC), customers can quickly test different solution architectures using AWS Outposts, to validate their designs before implementing in production."
Walton Smith, Director, WWT
Read case study »
Contact us
Learn more about AWS Outposts by contacting us directly
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started with AWS Outposts in the AWS Management Console.
Sign in