Amazon Interactive Video Service
Build engaging live stream experiences
Get started with Amazon Interactive Video Service
Live Chat
Amazon Interactive Video Service (Amazon IVS) is a managed live streaming solution that is quick and easy to set up, and ideal for creating interactive video experiences. Send your live streams to Amazon IVS using streaming software and the service does everything you need to make low-latency live video available to any viewer around the world, letting you focus on building interactive experiences alongside the live video. You can easily customize and enhance the audience experience through the Amazon IVS player SDK and timed metadata APIs, allowing you to build a more valuable relationship with your viewers on your own websites and applications.
100 hours of SD video output & 5 hours of basic video input free
per month for 12 months* with the AWS Free Tier
*following your initial sign-up date to AWS
Get started for free
Benefits
Simple-to-use live video streaming
Create and configure live streams with just a few clicks, and start streaming in seconds. Send video to Amazon IVS, and the service manages everything needed to get your live stream to your viewers.
Build an engaging audience experience
Amazon IVS streams are designed to provide low-latency live video “out of the box.” Latency that can be less than three seconds means you can build engaging and interactive experiences alongside live video.
Optimized for live streaming
Built on the same live streaming technology that powers Twitch, Amazon IVS provides an enhanced quality of service and experience by receiving and delivering streams over managed global infrastructure that is optimized for live video ingest, processing, and delivery.
Easy integration into websites and apps
Get live streams into your iOS, Android, and web apps, quickly and easily with the Amazon IVS player and broadcast SDKs. The SDKs give your streamers and audiences a consistent experience and low-latency live streams across different platforms, without compromising video quality or increasing buffering.
How it works
Customer stories
“With Amazon IVS as our backbone, we have a service that can scale with our needs. Right now, we have a straightforward live streaming experience that’s easy for our subscribers to use. It’s great for sharing events from any Wi-Fi connected event, which keeps people connected when they can’t share in-person experiences.”
Rahul Iyengar, Senior Director of Software Engineering at GoPro
“Amazon IVS provides the leading edge of live video technology transformations and maintains high availability systems, all while reducing the operational burden of managing complex, distributed live video networks. With it, we can focus more on enhancing user-oriented functions and interactivity to ensure we're providing an irreplaceable experience."
Daisuke Mizuta, producer of Pococha at DeNA
“Blackboard serves millions of users in countries in every region around the globe. As instructional techniques evolve and we continue to grow, we’re exploring how we can improve our interactive video experiences for all users, which is where Amazon IVS is changing the game. In one day, we were able to quickly integrate IVS into our teaching and learning workflow. It handles a majority of the work on the back end, freeing up more time for our team focus on creating and building standout experiences.”
Scott Hurrey, Staff Engineering at Blackboard
"Amazon IVS has allowed us to simplify our product scalability while at the same time delivering innovation to our end users. The ability to use timed metadata now allows us to improvise quickly and build interactive experiences inside our product. For our solution, low latency has always been the key and getting less than 5 seconds of glass to glass latency on a consistent basis makes our product more attractive. Amazon IVS is the perfect fit for our product and users”
Moinuddin Hyder, VP Product & Commercials at Panya
“The ease of use and simplicity of Amazon IVS allows us to focus on delivering innovation rather than worrying about video infrastructure. We have been able to quickly integrate video conferencing tools with Amazon IVS to provide our customers an interactive broadcast solution”
Luke Hubbard, CTO of ScreenCloud
Use cases
Amazon Interactive Video Service can make new live video available to viewers in seconds, and is ideal for use cases that need new streams within a moment’s notice. With the low-latency live video so simple to use, these are some example use cases and applications that you can build alongside your Amazon IVS streams to create engaging interactive experiences.
Engage your audiences with social chat
Let your audiences interact with each other by adding a virtual space to chat alongside your live streaming content.
E-Commerce and alternative revenue
Synchronize companion promotional elements alongside the live video to let viewers make purchases or donations related to the content being shown.
Votes and Polls
Get instant feedback and gauge audience opinions with polling and voting applications built using the timed metadata API.
Real-time Q & A
Allow viewers to ask questions via a separate chat space, and answer audience questions in real-time, or build trivia applications with live video.
Have questions?
Contact us
Ready to build?
Discover more resources
Visit the Resources page
Read the documentation
User Guide
API Reference