AWS Application Migration Service
Simplify and expedite your migration while reducing costs
Get started with AWS Application Migration Service
Take free online technical training
AWS Application Migration Service (AWS MGN) allows you to quickly realize the benefits of migrating applications to the cloud without changes and with minimal downtime.
AWS Application Migration Service minimizes time-intensive, error-prone manual processes by automatically converting your source servers from physical, virtual, or cloud infrastructure to run natively on AWS. It further simplifies your migration by enabling you to use the same automated process for a wide range of applications.
And by launching non-disruptive tests before migrating, you can be confident that your most critical applications such as SAP, Oracle, and SQL Server will work seamlessly on AWS.
When to use AWS Application Migration Service
AWS Application Migration Service (AWS MGN) is the primary migration service recommended to lift and shift your applications to AWS. Customers considering CloudEndure Migration are encouraged to use AWS Application Migration Service for future migrations. Learn more
Migrate for free
with the AWS Free Tier
Get started for free
Introduction to AWS Application Migration Service
Benefits
Access to advanced technology
Simplify operations and get better insights with AWS Application Migration Service’s integration with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM), Amazon CloudWatch, AWS CloudTrail, and other AWS services.
Minimal downtime during migration
With AWS Application Migration Service, you can maintain normal business operations throughout the replication process. It continuously replicates source servers, which means little to no performance impact. Continuous replication also makes it easy to conduct non-disruptive tests and shortens cutover windows.
Reduced costs
AWS Application Migration Service reduces overall migration costs as there is no need to invest in multiple migration solutions, specialized cloud development, or application-specific skills. This is because it can be used to lift and shift any application from any source infrastructure that runs supported operating systems (OS).
How it works
Agent Installation* Implementation begins by installing the AWS Replication Agent on your source servers. Once it’s installed, you can view and define replication settings. AWS Application Migration Service (AWS MGN) uses these settings to create and manage a Staging Area Subnet with lightweight Amazon EC2 instances that act as Replication Servers and low-cost staging Amazon EBS volumes.
*If you cannot install agents on your servers, use the agentless replication option.
Continuous Replication Replication Servers receive data from the agent running on your source servers and write this data to the staging Amazon EBS volumes. Your replicated data is compressed and encrypted in transit, and can be encrypted at rest using EBS encryption. AWS Application Migration Service keeps your source servers up to date on AWS using continuous, block-level data replication. It uses your defined launch settings to launch instances when you conduct non-disruptive tests or perform a cutover.
Testing and Cutover  When you launch Test or Cutover instances, AWS Application Migration Service automatically converts your source servers to boot and run natively on AWS. After confirming that your launched instances are operating properly on AWS, you can decommission your source servers. You can then choose to modernize your applications by leveraging additional AWS services and capabilities.
Read the technical documentation
Featured customers
"The service eliminated the need for writing custom migration scripts since everything could be orchestrated from the service’s web-based console,”
- Reeve Ramharry, Team Leader of IT infrastructure at The University of the West Indies, Open Campus (UWIOC)
The University of the West Indies, Open Campus (UWIOC) decided to replace its aging on-premises hardware with AWS. Using AWS Application Migration Service, it rehosted over 70 virtual machines, 10 applications, five networks, and 6TB of data. According to Reeve Ramharry, team leader of IT infrastructure at UWIOC, “AWS Application Migration Service was chosen since it provided a highly automated lift-and-shift solution and supported our complex environment.” Among the applications that were successfully migrated was Ellucian Banner, an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. By migrating to AWS, UWIOC reduced the amount of time staff spent on maintaining hardware and software, accelerated its digital transformation plan, and reduced total cost of ownership by 50 percent.
Learn more
“People didn’t think the move could be executed in such a short timeframe, especially given constraints around coronavirus. But we executed the migration as planned.”
- Tiina Flytström, Head of Infrastructure and Cybersecurity, Finnair
Finnair achieved substantial cost savings by exiting two data centers and migrating 70 applications previously hosted on approximately 400 servers to AWS. By using AWS Application Migration Service and AWS CloudEndure Migration Factory Solution, Finnair was able to quickly lift and shift its Windows and Linux based applications with minimal disruption. The migration was completed within just seven months. In addition to migrating quickly and without disruption, while rapidly cutting costs, the migration has also provided the airline with the benefits of a future-ready and agile infrastructure.
“There was no performance impact or service disruption during the entire sync process.”
- Maurice Lui, IT Manager, Bosa Development
In order to consolidate and upgrade their legacy IT infrastructure, Bosa Development turned to AWS. Together with AWS Advanced Consulting Partner OpsGuru, a Carbon60 Company, they decided on a “lift and shift first” migration approach. The OpsGuru team leveraged AWS Application Migration Service (CloudEndure Migration) to rapidly re-host Bosa Development’s Microsoft File Server workloads into Amazon EC2 instances. Then, once the data was fully available on AWS, the team utilized Amazon FSx to host the consolidated data. This highly effective method of initial workload migration followed by modernization enabled Bosa Development to start benefiting from improved service availability, resilience, scalability, and security within just a few months.
“AWS Application Migration Service helped us migrate faster and enabled us to release the overall program smoothly."
- Jason Astacio, Vice President of Cloud Infrastructure, WFS
World Fuel Services (WFS) had accumulated 22 data centers through business acquisitions, many running Windows and Microsoft SQL Server workloads. The high cost of operating these autonomous legacy systems pointed to a need to modernize technology and consolidate data centers. To migrate quickly, WFS used AWS Application Migration Service, an automated lift and shift solution that simplifies, expedites, and reduces the cost of cloud migration. The company began by migrating 10 applications in the first quarter, 40 in the next quarter, and 60 in the quarter after that. By the end of 2020, WFS was migrating 100 apps per quarter. Altogether, WFS migrated 20 data centers to AWS in only 2 years and realized a seven-figure cost reduction.
Blog posts and articles
No items returned.
Accelerate your migration
Learn how to accelerate your large-scale migration to AWS with the AWS Migration Acceleration Program.
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started with AWS Application Migration Service.
Sign in