AWS Cost & Usage Report
Dive deeper into your AWS cost and usage data
Getting Started with AWS Cost & Usage Report
The AWS Cost & Usage Report contains the most comprehensive set of AWS cost and usage data available, including additional metadata about AWS services, pricing, credit, fees, taxes, discounts, cost categories, Reserved Instances, and Savings Plans.
The AWS Cost & Usage Report (CUR) itemizes usage at the account or Organization level by product code, usage type and operation. These costs can be further organized by Cost Allocation tags and Cost Categories. The AWS Cost & Usage Report is available at an hourly, daily, or monthly level of granularity, as well as at the management or member account level. With the right access, users can access CUR at management and member account level, which saves management account holders from having to generate CUR reports for member accounts.
AWS Cost & Usage Report Demo
Benefits
Access comprehensive AWS cost and usage information
Dive deeper into your AWS cost and usage data, understand cost drivers at the resource-level, and identify opportunities for cost optimization. Learn about the definition of various columns from the data dictionary.
Track your Reserved Instances (RI) and Savings Plans usage
Track down your RI and Savings Plans’ utilization at the instance level. CUR further amortizes associated fees and provides calculations to enable internal cost allocation based on your organization’s reporting needs.
Leverage integrations with other analytics services
Query your cost and usage information using standard SQL with the Amazon Athena data integration feature. Upload your data directly into Amazon Redshift or Amazon QuickSights for further analysis
Public and Private Pricing
Access both the public and private pricing information for your AWS resources usage and measure how much you are saving compared to the public On-Demand rating.
Cost Category and Cost Allocation tags
Organize cost and usage data with your own AWS Cost Categories and Cost Allocation tags. CUR displays these dimensions as additional columns with the applicable values for each row, so it's easier to track and understand your costs.
FEATURED RESOURCE
Getting Started with AWS Budget Actions
Get started with AWS Budget Actions to respond to cost and usage in your accounts when a budget target has been exceeded.
Read the blog
How it works
AWS delivers the AWS Cost & Usage Report to whichever Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) bucket you specify during setup, and updates the reports at least once per day. You can download the reports using the Amazon S3 console in csv files.
You can configure your Cost & Usage Reports to integrate with Amazon Athena. Once Amazon Athena integration has been enabled for your Cost & Usage Report, your data will be delivered in compressed Apache Parquet files to an Amazon S3 bucket of your choice. When you integrate with Redshift, all the necessary commands are provided to you in the RedshiftCommands.sql file that is stored alongside your manifest file in S3, and in the Redshift fileHelper file in the Billing and Cost Management console. Your AWS Cost & Usage Report can also be integrated directly with Amazon QuickSight.
Featured Resources
Updates
Cost & Usage Report is now available to Member (Linked) Accounts
Learn more
Documentation
Learn how to get started with AWS Cost & Usage Report
Read more
Blog Post
Stay up to date with our latest product enhancement, solutions best practices, and customer stories
How do I
AWS WELL-ARCHITECTED LABS
Implement IAM Policies to Control Usage
Learn cost and usage governance skills on this hands-on lab to help align with your business requirements.
Visit the lab ›
BLOG
Analyze Costs with Greater Detail and Accuracy
Use the Cost Intelligence Dashboard to create a foundation for your cost management and optimization reporting.
Learn more ›
Ready to get started?
Control your AWS costs
Learn how to control your AWS costs using the AWS Free Tier and AWS Budgets.
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier and start experimenting with AWS.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Better analyze and understand your AWS Costs & Usage.
Get started