AWS Trusted Advisor
Reduce costs, increase performance, and improve security
Try Trusted Advisor
Select a support plan
AWS Trusted Advisor is an online tool that provides you real time guidance to help you provision your resources following AWS best practices. Trusted Advisor checks help optimize your AWS infrastructure, increase security and performance, reduce your overall costs, and monitor service limits. Whether establishing new workflows, developing applications, or as part of ongoing improvement, take advantage of the recommendations provided by Trusted Advisor on a regular basis to help keep your solutions provisioned optimally.
AWS Basic Support and AWS Developer Support customers get access to 6 security checks (S3 Bucket Permissions, Security Groups - Specific Ports Unrestricted, IAM Use, MFA on Root Account, EBS Public Snapshots, RDS Public Snapshots) and 50 service limit checks. AWS Business Support and AWS Enterprise Support customers get access to all 115 Trusted Advisor checks (14 cost optimization, 17 security, 24 fault tolerance, 10 performance, and 50 service limits) and recommendations. For a complete list of checks and descriptions, explore Trusted Advisor Best Practices.
Benefits
AWS Trusted Advisor analyzes your AWS environment and provides best practice recommendations in five categories.
Cost optimization
AWS Trusted Advisor can save you money on AWS by eliminating unused and idle resources or by making commitments to reserved capacity.
Performance
AWS Trusted Advisor can improve the performance of your service by checking your service limits, ensuring you take advantage of provisioned throughput, and monitoring for overutilized instances.
Security
AWS Trusted Advisor can improve the security of your application by closing gaps, enabling various AWS security features, and examining your permissions.
Fault tolerance
AWS Trusted Advisor can increase the availability and redundancy of your AWS application by take advantage of auto scaling, health checks, multi AZ, and backup capabilities.
Service limits
AWS Trusted Advisor checks for service usage that is more than 80% of the service limit. Values are based on a snapshot, so your current usage might differ. Limit and usage data can take up to 24 hours to reflect any changes.
Features
AWS Trusted Advisor provides a suite of features for you to customize recommendations and to proactively monitor your AWS resources. For more information, please see the Trusted Advisor FAQs.
Email notifications
The Trusted Advisor notification feature helps you stay up-to-date with a summary of status across your checks. You will be notified by weekly email when you opt in for this feature. A refresh of checks is required to ensure up-to-date summary of check status in your email notification.
Recent changes
You can track recent changes or check status in the AWS Management Console dashboard. The most recent changes appear at the top of the list to bring them to your attention. Available with AWS Business Support and AWS Enterprise Support.
Exclude items
The "exclude items" allows you to customize the Trusted Advisor report. You can exclude items from the check result if they are not relevant; the excluded items appear separately, and you can restore (include) them at any time.
Action links
Items in a Trusted Advisor report have hyperlinks to the console, where you can take action on the Trusted Advisor recommendations.
Access management
You can use AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to control access to specific checks or check categories.
AWS Support API
You can refresh and retrieve Trusted Advisor results programmatically using AWS Support API. Available with AWS Business Support and AWS Enterprise Support.
Refresh
You can refresh individual checks or refresh all the checks at once by clicking the Refresh All button in the top-right corner of the summary dashboard. The minimum refresh interval varies based on the check.
Amazon CloudWatch integration
You can use Amazon CloudWatch Events to detect and react to changes in the status of Trusted Advisor checks. Available with AWS Business Support and AWS Enterprise Support.
How it works