Amazon Simple Notification Service
Fully managed pub/sub messaging, SMS, email, and mobile push notifications
Get started for free
Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS) is a fully managed messaging service for both application-to-application (A2A) and application-to-person (A2P) communication.
The A2A pub/sub functionality provides topics for high-throughput, push-based, many-to-many messaging between distributed systems, microservices, and event-driven serverless applications. Using Amazon SNS topics, your publisher systems can fanout messages to a large number of subscriber systems, including Amazon SQS queues, AWS Lambda functions, HTTPS endpoints, and Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, for parallel processing. The A2P functionality enables you to send messages to users at scale via SMS, mobile push, and email.
1 million requests free
with the AWS Free Tier
Benefits
Simplify and reduce costs with message filtering and batching
Amazon SNS helps you simplify your application architecture and reduce costs. With message batching, publisher systems can send up to 10 messages in a single API request. With message filtering, subscriber systems receive only the messages that they are interested in. To learn more, see Message Filtering and Message Batching.
Ensure accuracy with message ordering and deduplication
Amazon SNS FIFO topics work with Amazon SQS FIFO queues to ensure messages are delivered in a strictly-ordered manner and are only processed once. This enables you to maintain accuracy and consistency when processing transactions across a single or multiple independent services. To learn more, see Message Ordering and Message Deduplication.
Increase security with message encryption and privacy
Amazon SNS provides encrypted topics to protect your messages from unauthorized access. The encryption uses a 256-bit AES-GCM algorithm and a customer master key (CMK) issued with AWS Key Management Service (KMS). Amazon SNS also supports VPC endpoints via AWS PrivateLink, so you can privately publish messages to Amazon SNS topics, from an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) subnet, without traversing the Internet. To learn more, see Message Encryption and Traffic Privacy.
Increase durability with message archiving, delivery retries, and DLQ
Amazon SNS stores each message published across geographically-separated data centers. If a subscribed system isn't available, Amazon SNS executes a message delivery retry policy. To preserve any messages that can't be delivered before the delivery retry policy ends, Amazon SNS can move them to dead-letter queues (DLQ). Amazon SNS can also archive messages in Amazon S3 via Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose subscriptions. To learn more, see Message Archiving, Delivery Retries, and DLQ.
Capture and fan out events from AWS services
Amazon SNS is an event-driven hub that has native integration with a wide variety of AWS event sources and destinations. Amazon SNS can capture and fan out events from more than 60 AWS services, from a number of AWS categories, such as Analytics, Compute, Containers, Databases, IoT, Machine Learning, Security, Serverless, and Storage. To learn more, see Event Sources and Event Destinations.
Send A2P notifications via SMS, mobile push, and email
Amazon SNS enables you to send notifications directly to your customers. Amazon SNS supports SMS text messaging to over 200 countries, mobile push notifications to Amazon, Android, Apple, Baidu, and Microsoft devices, and also email notifications. Amazon SNS provides redundancy across multiple SMS providers, and enables you to send mobile push notifications using a single API for all mobile platforms. To learn more, see SMS, Mobile Push Notifications, and Email Notifications.
How it works
Pub/Sub
SMS
Mobile Push
Case studies
AWS Services Used: Amazon SNS, AWS Lambda
AWS Services Used: Amazon SNS, Amazon SQS
AWS Services Used: Amazon SNS, Amazon SQS, Amazon EC2, Amazon S3
AWS Services Used: Amazon SNS, Amazon Route 53, Amazon CloudFront, Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon RDS, AWS CloudFormation
PlayOn! Sports is one of the leading high school sports media companies in the US. They operate a comprehensive technology platform, enabling high-quality, low-cost productions of live sports events. Their serverless video processing pipeline illustrates the fanout messaging pattern and options for its inclusion in a serverless architecture, using Amazon SNS and AWS Lambda.
Read the blog
The NASA Image and Video Library provides easy access to more than 140,000 still images, audio recordings, and videos—documenting NASA’s more than half a century of achievements in exploring the vast unknown. The architecture includes Amazon SNS to trigger the processing pipelines when new content is updated, and Amazon SQS to decouple incoming jobs from pipeline processors.
Read the case study
Change Healthcare uses AWS services, such as Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon SQS, and Amazon SNS to handle millions of confidential transactions daily from its clients, while maintaining full compliance with healthcare industry regulations, including HIPAA.
The FCBarcelona web platform boasts over 6,000 pages and over 12,000 digitized photographs. It is available in six languages and consolidates up-to-date information for five elite professional teams. The solution relies on Amazon SNS for several platform notifications.
Blog posts
Featured SNS A2A blog posts
Publishing messages in batch to Amazon SNS topics
by Heeki Park, 11/18/2021
Get Started with Amazon S3 Event Driven Design Patterns
by Micah Walter, Aditya Pendyala, and Divyesh Sah, 09/27/2021
Introducing message archiving and analytics for Amazon SNS
by James Beswick, 01/12/2021
Introducing Amazon SNS FIFO – First-In-First-Out Pub/Sub Messaging
by Danilo Poccia, 10/22/2020
Featured SNS A2P blog posts
Token-based authentication for iOS applications with Amazon SNS
by Talia Nassi, 11/09/2021
Introducing the SMS sandbox for Amazon SNS
by James Beswick, 06/01/2021
Provisioning and using 10DLC origination numbers with Amazon SNS
by Benjamin Smith, 06/01/2021
Related blog posts
More...
No blog posts have been found at this time. Please see the AWS Blog for other resources.
What's new with Amazon SNS
Date
Get started with AWS
Enter the Amazon SNS Console
Instantly get access to the
AWS Free Tier.
Learn more with Amazon SNS tutorials
Quickly set up and use SNS tools.
Create an Amazon SNS Topic
Publish and subscribe to topics in minutes.
Learn more about Amazon SNS
Visit the features page
Ready to build?
Get started with Amazon SNS
Have more questions?
Contact us