Amazon AppStream 2.0
Cloud native non-persistent desktop and application virtualization
Get started with Amazon AppStream 2.0
Try sample applications at no cost
Amazon AppStream 2.0 is a fully managed non-persistent desktop and application virtualization service that allows your users to securely access the data, applications, and resources they need, anywhere, anytime, from any supported device. With AppStream 2.0, you can easily scale your applications and desktops to any number of users across the globe without acquiring, provisioning, and operating hardware or infrastructure. AppStream 2.0 is built on AWS, so you benefit from a data center and network architecture designed for the most security-sensitive organizations. Each end user has a fluid and responsive experience because your applications run on virtual machines optimized for specific use cases and each streaming sessions automatically adjusts to network conditions.
Analyst whitepaper
Accelerate Cloud Adoption  With Application Streaming
A commissioned study conducted by  Forrester Consulting on behalf of AWS
Read your whitepaper
Benefits
Increase Agility
Being ready to change where and how your workforce gets the job done is more important than ever. Amazon AppStream 2.0 is a fully managed service, so you can scale up and down in minutes as your business needs change. AppStream 2.0 runs your applications and desktops in AWS Regions and AWS Availability Zones around the globe, and are accessable from almost any device so your end users can get the job done anywhere, anytime.
Increase Security
Reducing the risk of company data leaking is critical in a more mobile and remote environment. With AppStream 2.0, applications and data are not stored on users' computers. Your applications are streamed as encrypted pixels and access data secured within your network. AppStream 2.0 runs on AWS, so you benefit from a data center and network architecture built for the most security-sensitive organizations.
Optimize Cost
In a changing economy, every dollar counts. AppStream 2.0 eliminates the need to over-buy desktop and laptop resources by providing on-demand access to cloud desktops that include a range of compute, memory, and storage options to meet your users' performance needs. AppStream 2.0 offers pay-as-you-go pricing options so you can adapt to changing business needs without minimum monthly fees, long-term commitments, or upfront license charges.
Increase Reliability
End users can only be productive when they can access their applications. AppStream 2.0 is built on the AWS Cloud and our global network of AWS Regions and AWS Availability Zones, and runs on AWS EC2 instances with built-in auto scale load balancing. We take on the undifferentiated work of keeping infrastructure up and running and deliver a 99.9% uptime SLA.
How it works
Use cases
Contact Center Agents
Contact center agents are the front line for the customer experience and organizations increasingly have some or all of their agents working from home. Amazon AppStream 2.0 enables organizations to allow these agents to work from anywhere securely, while protecting corporate IP by ensuring it is never at rest on end user devices.
Online Trials, Demos, Training
With AppStream 2.0, you can provide software trials on demand with no local installs or special hardware required. You can enable your sales team to deliver sales demos for your software from any device. Similarly, you can deliver training and certification workshops for your software with no physical lab or class time.
Remote Students and Labs
With AppStream 2.0, students access the applications they need for class through any computer. AppStream 2.0 makes it easy to manage applications for your class. Simply install your applications on AppStream 2.0 the same way you would on any Windows computer. Then, configure your application with a few clicks, and your students can start learning.
3D Design and Engineering
With AppStream 2.0, your users can access CAD, CAM, and CAE applications such as SOLIDWORKS, Siemens NX, MathWorks MATLAB, or AVEVA Everything 3D on any computer. Each user's experience is fluid and responsive because your applications run on virtual machines (VMs) optimized for their use cases, and the NICE DCV protocol automatically adjusts each streaming session to network conditions.
Customer stories
GE Renewable Energy harnesses the earth’s most abundant resources to power the world’s biggest economies and the most remote communities. Amazon AppStream 2.0 let GE’s IT team simplify their application management process by giving their global business units the ability to securely manage their own applications.
"With Amazon AppStream 2.0, we don’t operate any infrastructure, and scale on-demand to any number of users. And, we’re no longer the single team maintaining applications for each business unit. We simply configure a golden image, and let each team manage their application on it. This saves us days of work every month as we grow our deployment from hundreds to thousands of users.“
- Glorious Gaduang, Principal Cloud Architect, GE Renewable Energy
Samsung Engineering is a leading engineering, procurement, construction and project management company. Samsung Engineering needed to expand internationally, but their on-premises infrastructure made it difficult to deliver the graphics-intensive applications in the Hexagon engineering software suite to their employees and partners around the world.
“Our on-premises infrastructure was not set up to collaborate with our international partners, and expanding this infrastructure to meet our needs was cost-prohibitive. With AppStream 2.0, we've been able to build a global collaboration model while also reducing our operating costs by 30%. Delivering these solutions with the scalability and flexibility of AppStream 2.0 are a clear benefit that allow us to operate globally."
- Jeonghoon Lee, Senior Cloud Architect, Samsung Engineering Co
Siemens' NX is a powerful CAD software application that helps design and manufacturing customers deliver better products faster and more efficiently. Siemens uses Amazon AppStream 2.0 to provide virtual test drives, demo environments, and deliver training of its NX software.
“AppStream 2.0 enables us to instantly deliver Siemens’ NX for virtual test drives, software testing, and training. Previously, many hours were being spent on software installation and system setup for these activities. AppStream 2.0 solved this problem. With AppStream 2.0, we can deploy the latest version of NX and provide customers instant access to the application through their browser with no downloads, installs, or configuration required.”
– George L. Rendell, Senior Director, NX Design, Siemens PLM Software
Blog posts
Visit our desktop and application streaming blog to learn about unique use cases, best practices, technical deep dives, and new feature launches.
date
1
...
Next steps
Try sample applications
Try sample business or 3D design and engineering applications at no cost.
Learn with our getting started guide
Learn how to configure, manage, and stream applications to your users.
Run your applications on AppStream 2.0
Deploy your apps into production and visit our resources page for tips and tricks.
Learn more about Amazon AppStream 2.0
Visit the features page
Ready to start?
Have more questions?
Contact us