AWS Service Catalog
Create, organize, and govern your curated catalog of AWS products
Get started with AWS Service Catalog
AWS Service Catalog allows organizations to create and manage catalogs of IT services that are approved for use on AWS. These IT services can include everything from virtual machine images, servers, software, and databases to complete multi-tier application architectures. AWS Service Catalog allows you to centrally manage deployed IT services and your applications, resources, and metadata. This helps you achieve consistent governance and meet your compliance requirements, while enabling users to quickly deploy only the approved IT services they need. With AWS Service Catalog AppRegistry, organizations can understand the application context of their AWS resources. You can define and manage your applications and their metadata, to keep track of cost, performance, security, compliance and operational status at the application level.
AWS Service Catalog - Getting Started (1:34)
Benefits
Ensure compliance with corporate standards
AWS Service Catalog provides a single location where organizations can centrally manage catalogs of IT services. With AWS Service Catalog you can control which IT services and versions are available, what is configured in each of the available service, and who gets permission access by individual, group, department or cost center.
Help employees quickly find and deploy approved IT services
With AWS Service Catalog, you define your own catalog of AWS services and AWS Marketplace software, and make them available for your organization. Then, end users can quickly discover and deploy IT services using a self-service portal.
Centrally manage IT service lifecycle
AWS Service Catalog enables you to add new versions of IT services, and end users are notified so they can keep abreast of the latest updates. With AWS Service Catalog you can control the use of IT services by specifying constraints, such as limiting the AWS regions in which a product can be launched.
Connect with ITSM/ITOM software
The AWS Service Management Connector helps IT Service Management (ITSM) administrators improve governance over provisioned AWS and third-party products. ITSM tools, such as ServiceNow and Jira Service Desk, connect with the AWS Management and Governance services AWS Service Catalog, AWS Config, and AWS Systems Manager. ITSM users to can connect to AWS Service Catalog to request, provision, and manage AWS and third-party services and resources.
Manage all of your application information on AWS
AWS Service Catalog AppRegistry provides a single repository for collecting and managing your application resources on AWS. You define your application metadata, which may include information from your internal systems, other AWS services, and software vendors. Builders can include a reference to their application within the infrastructure code, and business stakeholders have up-to-date information on application contents and metadata, such as organizational ownership, data sensitivity, and cost center.
Case studies
Wiley is using AWS to give developers self-service capabilities, launch new applications in minutes instead of weeks, and enable the creation of new digital publishing platforms.
Read case study
“Using reliable, HIPAA-compliant services deployed from AWS Service Catalog, we can accelerate our time to market while continuing to lead conversations around security.”
Cloudticity runs its Oxygen managed services platform on AWS and uses AWS Service Catalog to create and manage catalogs of IT services.
TechnipFMC enhances security, provisions IT services quickly, and creates a repeatable foundation for future application migrations using the AWS Service Catalog.
Blog posts & articles
Date
More...
Additional AWS Service Catalog blog posts are available in the
AWS Partner Network (APN) Blog.
Read the getting started guide
Follow our getting started guide to create and manage your catalog of IT services.
Read documentation
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Start building with AWS Service Catalog in the console.
Sign in
Learn more about AWS Service Catalog
Visit the features page
Ready to build?
Have more questions?
Contact us