AWS Storage Gateway
On-premises access to virtually unlimited cloud storage
Get started with AWS Storage Gateway
Request more information
AWS Storage Gateway is a set of hybrid cloud services that gives you on-premises access to virtually unlimited cloud storage. Customers use Storage Gateway to integrate AWS Cloud storage with existing on-site workloads so they can simplify storage management and reduce costs for key hybrid cloud storage use cases. These include moving backups to the cloud, using on-premises file shares backed by cloud storage, and providing low latency access to data in AWS for on-premises applications.
To support these use cases, Storage Gateway offers four different types of gateways – Amazon S3 File Gateway, Amazon FSx File Gateway, Tape Gateway, and Volume Gateway – that seamlessly connect on-premises applications with cloud storage. Moving data to the cloud for advanced AWS Cloud storage capabilities and caching data locally for low-latency access gives you the best of cloud and on-premises. Applications connect to the service through a virtual machine or gateway hardware appliance using standard storage protocols, such as NFS, SMB, and iSCSI. The gateway connects to AWS storage services, such as Amazon S3, Amazon S3 Glacier, Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive, Amazon FSx for Windows File Server, Amazon EBS, and AWS Backup, providing storage and data management for files, volumes, snapshots, and virtual tapes in AWS. The service includes an optimized and efficient data transfer mechanism, with bandwidth management and automated network resilience, and provides a consistent management experience using the AWS Console on-premises and in the AWS Cloud.
Introduction to AWS Storage Gateway (2:40)
Benefits
Simple
It is simple to get started with AWS Storage Gateway. You download the gateway virtual machine software from AWS or deploy the dedicated hardware appliance, assign an IP address to the gateway, and associate the gateway with your AWS account by activating it. Your gateway is managed and updated from the AWS Console. Storage Gateway requires no changes to your applications, easily integrating with standard storage protocols on-premises.
Cloud-integrated
Hybrid cloud storage means your data can be accessed on-premises and take advantage of the advanced capabilities in AWS Cloud storage services, including Amazon S3, Amazon S3 Glacier, Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive, Amazon FSx for Windows File Server, and Amazon EBS. Once data is moved to AWS, you'll benefit from using AWS compute, machine learning, and big data analytics services to gain more insights from your data. Additionally, you can leverage the full AWS portfolio of security and management services including AWS Key Management Service (KMS), AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM), Amazon CloudWatch, and AWS CloudTrail.
Efficient access
AWS Storage Gateway caches data in the local VM or gateway hardware appliance, providing low-latency disk and network performance for your most active data. It manages local cache offloads to the cloud in the background based on your desired performance parameters. Users and applications continue to operate using a local storage model and seamlessly work with data in the cloud. Only data that changes is transferred to AWS Cloud storage using compression and bandwidth management to optimize data transfers.
Durable and secure
Data stored through AWS Storage Gateway benefits from the durability and security embedded in AWS Cloud storage services. Storage Gateway high availability on VMware meets the operational needs of uninterruptible, latency-sensitive workloads such as media drives, streaming log repositories, and storage for scientific instruments. All data that Storage Gateway transfers to AWS is encrypted in transit and at rest in AWS.
Scalable
Customers experience a fast deployment and the cloud storage is delivered and billed on demand, enabling your business to leverage the infinite scale of the AWS Cloud as business needs fluctuate. Workloads can expand and contract, backup and archive storage can extend without upfront costs, and you can provision additional storage capacity without new hardware. Storage Gateway gives customers looking for hybrid cloud storage the best of both worlds since it provides an easy on-ramp to the cloud while supporting your on-premises applications.
Cloud Storage in Minutes with AWS Storage Gateway
AWS Storage Gateway is a fast, simple way to get started in the cloud. In this video, we’ll show you how quick and easy it is to get started. In just minutes, you can be up and running in the cloud using AWS Storage Gateway.
Cloud Storage in Minutes with AWS Storage Gateway (6:37)
Read blog: Cloud storage in minutes with AWS Storage Gateway
How it Works
Use cases
Low latency access for on-premises applications to cloud
Storage Gateway enables on-premises applications to use cloud storage by providing low-latency data access over standard storage protocols. A local cache stores your most recently used data on-premises, and the cloud provides scalability as well as industry-leading data protection, durability, availability, security, and performance. Storage Gateway provides a simple first step into the cloud and is designed to be easy to deploy, easy to activate, and easy for your applications to access.
Learn more about File Gateway
Use on-premises file shares backed by cloud storage
Amazon FSx File Gateway helps you access fully managed, cloud backed file shares from on-premises, reduces your costs of storing data locally, and provides you with additional flexibility by allowing you to access your data in the cloud. Nearly all enterprises, regardless of industry, have to store files, whether they are user file shares, media content, or application datasets. Managing and scaling on-premises infrastructure is often burdensome and costly, requiring expensive hardware refreshes, expansion, and software licensing. Amazon FSx File Gateway helps you reduce these on-premises costs and physical hardware footprints giving you more freedom to make the best decisions for your business.
Learn more about Amazon FSx File Gateway
Move backups to the cloud
Storage Gateway enables you to securely and easily store backups in the cloud. These include database backups, file share backups, tape archives, and more. Tape Gateway provides a virtual tape library, with each virtual tape being stored in Amazon S3, and supports all major backup applications. Tape Gateway is designed to be a seamless drop-in replacement to your existing physical tape infrastructure. When you no longer require immediate or frequent access to data contained on a virtual tape, you can have your backup application archive it. Your data goes from the virtual tape library into Amazon S3 Glacier or Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive, further reducing storage costs. File Gateway offers you a seamless way to connect to the cloud in order to store application data files and backup data as durable objects on Amazon S3 cloud storage.
Learn more about Tape Gateway
For file-based backups and archives, Amazon S3 File Gateway offers you a seamless way to connect to the cloud in order to store application data files, access analytics and ML datasets, and backup data as objects on Amazon S3 cloud storage.
Learn more about Amazon S3 File Gateway
Data protection and disaster recovery
With a Volume Gateway configuration, you can take snapshots of your local volumes and store those snapshots in Amazon EBS. Those snapshots can be the starting point for an Amazon EBS volume, which you can then attach to an Amazon EC2 instance. In the event of a local site disaster, simply set up your applications in the cloud or in a different data center, and restore your snapshot to get back up and running.
Learn more about Volume Gateway
Customer Case Studies
AWS Storage Gateway helped TransferWise address their load and network constraints, which were preventing them from getting backups completed.
Ryanair moved to Tape Gateway because of the unreliability of physical tape and experienced 65% cost savings by switching to AWS.
FINRA (Financial Industry Regulatory Authority) uses AWS Storage Gateway to substantially reduce costs and simplify storage management.
Hear from more AWS Storage Gateway customers
Storage Gateway Blogs
No blog posts have been found at this time. Please see AWS Blog for other resources.
To read more AWS Storage Gateway blogs, please visit the AWS Storage blog channel.
What's New with Storage Gateway
Date
1
...
Ready to get started?
Check out Storage Gateway features
Learn more about the features that make it easy for you to run hybrid cloud workloads at any stage of your cloud adoption.
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the Console
Get started building with Storage Gateway in the AWS Console.
Get started
Learn more about AWS Storage Gateway
Visit the features page
Ready to build?
Have more questions?
Contact us