Amazon Redshift
Analyze all of your data with the fastest and most widely used cloud data warehouse
Talk to a specialist
Get Started
Analyze all of your data
No other data warehouse makes it as easy to gain new insights from all your data. With Redshift, you can query and combine exabytes of structured and semi-structured data across your data warehouse, operational database, and data lake using standard SQL. Redshift lets you easily save the results of your queries back to your S3 data lake using open formats, like Apache Parquet, so that you can do additional analytics from other analytics services like Amazon EMR, Amazon Athena, and Amazon SageMaker.
Learn more about taking the lake house approach by integrating with your Amazon S3 data lake »
"By leveraging Redshift's ability to query data directly in our Amazon S3 data lake, we have been able to easily integrate new data sources in hours, not days or weeks.  This has not only reduced our time to insight, but helped us control our infrastructure costs."
- Elliott Cordo
VP of Data Analytics, Equinox Fitness
3X
FASTER THAN OTHER CLOUD DATA WAREHOUSES
Performance at any scale
Redshift delivers fast query performance on gigabytes to petabytes of data, and from a few users to thousands. And you get consistently fast results as your workload grows over time.
Use RA3 instances with managed storage to get up to 3x better price performance than other cloud data warehouses.
Learn more about the performance benchmarks »
Experience the next generation of Redshift with AQUA (Advanced Query Accelerator)
AQUA is a new distributed and hardware accelerated cache that allows Redshift queries to run up to 10x faster than other cloud data warehouses by automatically boosting certain types of queries.
Learn more about AQUA »
Join tens of thousands of Amazon Redshift customers
Redshift powers analytical workloads for Fortune 500 companies, startups, and everything in between. Learn more about Redshift customers »
10s of thousands
of customers use Amazon Redshift
"Because of the performance and scale Redshift provides, we have increased our manufacturing efficiency and reduced the time needed to gather and prepare data for regulatory submissions by a factor of five."
- Jim Silva
Director Business Partner, Pfizer Inc.
50%
LESS EXPENSIVE THAN OTHER CLOUD DATA WAREHOUSES
Lower your costs with Amazon Redshift
Start small at $0.25 per hour and scale up to petabytes for under $1000 per terabyte per year. Pay only for what you use and know how much you'll spend with predictable monthly costs. Amazon Redshift is at least 50% less expensive than all other cloud data warehouses.
Scale and pay for storage and compute separately and get the optimal amount of storage and compute for diverse workloads. Choose the size of your Redshift cluster based on your performance requirements, and only pay for the storage that you use. The new managed storage automatically scales your data warehouse storage capacity without you having to add and pay for additional compute instances.
Migrate your on-premises data warehouse to Amazon Redshift
Learn more about modernizing your data warehouse.
Jack in the Box migrated off of Oracle and Microsoft SQL Server to Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) and Amazon Redshift
Press Release
Equinox Fitness migrated its on-premises data warehouse to Amazon Redshift.
Learn more »
21st Century Fox migrated its IBM Netezza on-premises data warehouse to Amazon Redshift.
Press Release | re:Invent session
Use cases
Business intelligence
Redshift makes it simple and cost effective to run high performance queries on petabytes of semi-structured and structured data so that you can build powerful reports and dashboards using QuickSight or other business intelligence tools.
Intuit uses Redshift for business intelligence.
Operational analytics on events
Bring together structured data from your data warehouse and semi-structured data such as application logs from your S3 data lake to get real-time operational insights on your applications and systems.
Euclid uses Redshift for analytics.
Data as a service
Share data inside and outside your organization for secure and governed collaboration on live data with Redshift data sharing (preview).
Predictive analytics
Use SQL to automatically create, train, and deploy Amazon SageMaker models on the data in your data warehouse with Redshift Machine Learning (preview).
What's New
date
1
…
Learn more about pricing
Learn more
See what's new
Visit our resources page