Amazon Simple Queue Service
Fully managed message queues for microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications
Get started for free
Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) is a fully managed message queuing service that enables you to decouple and scale microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications. SQS eliminates the complexity and overhead associated with managing and operating message-oriented middleware, and empowers developers to focus on differentiating work. Using SQS, you can send, store, and receive messages between software components at any volume, without losing messages or requiring other services to be available. Get started with SQS in minutes using the AWS console, Command Line Interface or SDK of your choice, and three simple commands.
SQS offers two types of message queues. Standard queues offer maximum throughput, best-effort ordering, and at-least-once delivery. SQS FIFO queues are designed to guarantee that messages are processed exactly once, in the exact order that they are sent.
1 million requests free
with the AWS Free Tier
Benefits
Eliminate administrative overhead
AWS manages all ongoing operations and underlying infrastructure needed to provide a highly available and scalable message queuing service. With SQS, there is no upfront cost, no need to acquire, install, and configure messaging software, and no time-consuming build-out and maintenance of supporting infrastructure. SQS queues are dynamically created and scale automatically so you can build and grow applications quickly and efficiently.
Reliably deliver messages
Use Amazon SQS to transmit any volume of data, at any level of throughput, without losing messages or requiring other services to be available. SQS lets you decouple application components so that they run and fail independently, increasing the overall fault tolerance of the system. Multiple copies of every message are stored redundantly across multiple availability zones so that they are available whenever needed.
Keep sensitive data secure
You can use Amazon SQS to exchange sensitive data between applications using server-side encryption (SSE) to encrypt each message body. Amazon SQS SSE integration with AWS Key Management Service (KMS) allows you to centrally manage the keys that protect SQS messages along with keys that protect your other AWS resources. AWS KMS logs every use of your encryption keys to AWS CloudTrail to help meet your regulatory and compliance needs.
Scale elastically and cost-effectively
Amazon SQS leverages the AWS cloud to dynamically scale based on demand. SQS scales elastically with your application so you don’t have to worry about capacity planning and pre-provisioning. There is no limit to the number of messages per queue, and standard queues provide nearly unlimited throughput. Costs are based on usage which provides significant cost saving versus the “always-on” model of self-managed messaging middleware.
Case studies
AWS Services Used: IoT Device Management, Amazon ECS, & Amazon SQS
AWS Services Used: Amazon SNS & Amazon SQS
AWS Services Used: Amazon SQS, Amazon S3, Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon RDS, & AWS Elastic Beanstalk
AWS Services Used: Amazon SQS
Petroleum retailers in Australia are improving the performance and safety of their service stations with an AWS IoT–enabled solution called Fuelsuite from EMS. EMS specializes in solutions that provide petrol retailers with performance data gathered from sensors located around petrol stations. Fuelsuite uses AWS IoT Device Management to control the edge devices collecting petrol station data, processes the data with Amazon EC2, and schedules messages to and from the edge devices by using Amazon SQS.
The NASA Image and Video Library provides easy access to more than 140,000 still images, audio recordings, and videos—documenting NASA’s more than half a century of achievements in exploring the vast unknown. The architecture includes Amazon SQS to decouple incoming jobs from pipeline processes and Amazon Simple Notification Service to trigger the processing pipeline when new content is updated.
The BMW Group is using AWS for its connected car application that collects sensor data from BMW 7 Series cars to give drivers dynamically updated map information. BMW built its new car-as-a-sensor (CARASSO) service in only six months leveraging Amazon SQS, Amazon S3, Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon RDS, and AWS Elastic Beanstalk.
Capital One is modernizing their retail message queuing by migrating from self-managed message-oriented middleware systems to Amazon SQS. Capital One is using SQS to migrate several core banking applications to the cloud to ensure high availability and cost efficiency while simplifying administrative complexity and overhead.
AWS Services Used: Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon SQS, Amazon SNS & more
AWS Services Used: Amazon SQS & Amazon SNS
AWS Services Used: Amazon EC2 & Amazon SQS
Change Healthcare uses AWS services like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon SQS, and Amazon SNS to handle millions of confidential transactions daily from its clients while maintaining with full compliance with healthcare industry regulations, including HIPAA.
redBus is expanding their AWS solution to include Amazon SQS and SNS for monitoring, alerts, and intercommunication. “Amazon SQS is an especially good solution for enabling messaging between external applications and our applications.” - Charan Padmaraju, redBus CTO
Oyster.com uses Amazon Web Services to store and process images for their website. The team uses Amazon EC2 and Amazon SQS in an integrated workflow to generate the sizes they need for each photo. SQS communicates the photos that need to be processed and the status of the jobs.
Blog posts & articles
Building an Immersive VR Streaming Solution on AWS
Chad Schmutzer
February 23, 2018
AWS Lambda Adds Amazon Simple Queue Service to Supported Event Sources
Randall Hunt
June 28, 2018
What's new
Amazon SQS FIFO Queues are Now Available in the AWS China Beijing (BJS) Region (Operated by SINNET), Asia Pacific (Hong Kong), GovCloud (US-East), and GovCloud (US-West)
May 15, 2019
Amazon SQS Now Supports Policies for VPC Endpoints
Apr 4, 2019
Amazon SQS FIFO Queues Now Available in EU (Stockholm) Region and China (Ningxia) Region, operated by NWCD
Mar 13, 2019
Amazon SQS FIFO Queues Now Available in 15 AWS Regions
Feb 7, 2019
Amazon SQS now Supports Amazon VPC Endpoints using AWS PrivateLink
Dec 13, 2018
AWS Lambda Supports Amazon SQS as an Event Source
Amazon Simple Queue Service Server-Side Encryption is Now Available in 13 Additional Regions
May 24, 2018
Amazon CloudWatch Events Adds Amazon SQS FIFO as an Event Target
April 10, 2018
Manage Amazon Simple Queue Service costs using Cost Allocation Tags
Oct 19, 2017
Amazon SQS FIFO Queues are Now Available in the US East (N. Virginia) Region
June 14, 2017
Amazon SQS FIFO Queues with Exactly-Once Processing are Now Available in the EU (Ireland) Region
June 8, 2017
Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) Server-Side Encryption is Now Available in the US East (N. Virginia) Region
May 23, 2017
Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) is Now a HIPAA Eligible Service
May 1, 2017
Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) Introduces Server-Side Encryption for Queues
April 28, 2017
The Amazon SQS Java Messaging Library for JMS now supports FIFO Queues
April 24, 2017
Get started with AWS
Enter the Amazon SQS Console
Instantly get access to the
AWS Free Tier.
Create an Amazon SQS Queue
Explore and learn with
simple tutorials.
Send Messages to the Queue
Store and move data between distributed application components and microservices.
Learn more about Amazon SQS
Visit the features page
Ready to build?
Get started with Amazon SQS
Have more questions?
Contact us