AWS Device Farm
Improve the quality of your web and mobile applications by testing across desktop browsers and real mobile devices hosted in the AWS Cloud
Get Started
AWS Device Farm is an application testing service that lets you improve the quality of your web and mobile apps by testing them across an extensive range of desktop browsers and real mobile devices; without having to provision and manage any testing infrastructure. The service enables you to run your tests concurrently on multiple desktop browsers or real devices to speed up the execution of your test suite, and generates videos and logs to help you quickly identify issues with your app.
Introducing AWS Device Farm (6:00)
Testing on real mobile devices
Automated Testing
Test your app in parallel against a massive collection of physical devices in the AWS Cloud. Use one of our built-in frameworks, to test your applications without having to write or maintain test scripts, or use one of our supported automation testing frameworks.
Remote Access
Gesture, swipe, and interact with devices in real time, directly from your web browser.
Testing on desktop browsers
Run your Selenium tests in parallel on multiple versions of Chrome, Internet Explorer, and Firefox, that are hosted in the AWS Cloud.
Benefits of real device testing on AWS Device Farm
Use the same devices your customers use
Run tests and interact with a large selection of physical devices. Unlike emulators, physical devices give you a more accurate understanding of the way users interact with your app by taking into account factors like memory, CPU usage, location, and modifications made by manufactures and carriers to the firmware and software. We are always adding devices to the fleet. See the device list.
Reproduce and fix issues faster
Manually reproduce issues and run automated tests in parallel. We collect videos, logs, and performance data so you can dive deep and solve problems quickly. For automated tests, we’ll identify and group issues so you can focus on the most important problems first.
Simulate real-world environments
Fine-tune your test environment by configuring location, language, network connection, application data, and installing prerequisite apps to simulate real-world customer conditions.
Choose the tests that work for you
Run our built-in test suite (no scripting required) or customize your tests by selecting from open-source test frameworks like Appium, Calabash, and Espresso (see supported frameworks). You can also perform manual tests with Remote Access.
Integrate with your development workflow
Use our service plugins and API to automatically initiate tests and get results from IDEs and continuous integration environments like Android Studio and Jenkins.
Setup your own private device lab in the cloud
Our private device lab offering lets you choose iOS and Android devices for your exclusive use. Device Farm provisions these devices with the exact configurations you need, and lets you persist settings between sessions. Since these devices are exclusively for your use, you don’t have to wait for other users to finish using them.
Benefits of desktop browser testing on AWS Device Farm
Execute your tests concurrently on multiple browser instances
Device Farm’s fully managed browser grid scales as needed allowing you to run multiple tests in parallel to speed up the execution of your test suite. With pay-as-you-go pricing you can run multiple tests concurrently without worrying about incurring any additional costs as you scale - you only pay for the total number of minutes your test executes for.
Identify and Debug issues quickly
Use videos, console logs, action logs, and web driver logs generated by Device Farm to identify, analyze, and quickly fix issues with your web app.
Test on multiple desktop browsers and browser versions
Run your tests on multiple desktop browsers, including Chrome, Firefox, and Internet Explorer, to ensure your web app functions as expected in different browser environments.
Trusted by Developers, QA, and Support Professionals
From our blog
Testing mobile apps with Cucumber and Appium through TestNG on AWS Device Farm
Adrian Hall
August 20, 2018
Check out the available devices for testing
Device Farm offers 2500+ devices for you to test your application on.
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started building with AWS Device Farm in the AWS Console.
Sign in