AWS Resource Access Manager
Simple, secure service to share AWS resources
Get started with AWS RAM
AWS Resource Access Manager (RAM) helps you securely share your resources across AWS accounts, within your organization or organizational units (OUs) in AWS Organizations, and with IAM roles and IAM users for supported resource types. You can use AWS RAM to share transit gateways, subnets, AWS License Manager license configurations, Amazon Route 53 Resolver rules, and more resource types.
Many organizations use multiple accounts to create administrative or billing isolation, and to limit the impact of errors. With AWS RAM, you don’t need to create duplicate resources in multiple AWS accounts. This reduces the operational overhead of managing resources in every account that you own. Instead, in your multi-account environment, you can create a resource once, and use AWS RAM to share that resource across accounts by creating a resource share. When you create a resource share, you select the resources to share, choose an AWS RAM managed permission per resource type, and specify whom you want to have access to the resources. AWS RAM is available to you at no additional charge.
Read AWS Blog
Benefits
Reduce Operational Overhead
Procure AWS resources centrally, and use RAM to share resources such as subnets or License Manager configurations with other accounts. This eliminates the need to provision duplicate resources in every account in a multi-account environment, reducing the operational overhead of managing those resources in every account.
Improve Security and Visibility
RAM leverages existing policies and permissions set in AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to govern the consumption of shared resources. RAM also provides comprehensive visibility into shared resources to set alarms and visualize logs through integration with Amazon CloudWatch and AWS CloudTrail.
Optimize Costs
Sharing resources such as AWS License Manager configurations across accounts allows you to leverage licenses in multiple parts of your company to increase utilization and optimize costs.
How it works
Read the documentation
Read the documentation to get started
Learn more
Sign in to your AWS Account
Sign in to your AWS account to create a Resource Share
Sign In
Read the Blog
Read the AWS blog for more information
Read blog