Amazon Athena
Start querying data instantly. Get results in seconds. Pay only for the queries you run.
Get started with Amazon Athena
Amazon Athena is an interactive query service that makes it easy to analyze data in Amazon S3 using standard SQL. Athena is serverless, so there is no infrastructure to manage, and you pay only for the queries that you run.
Athena is easy to use. Simply point to your data in Amazon S3, define the schema, and start querying using standard SQL. Most results are delivered within seconds. With Athena, there’s no need for complex ETL jobs to prepare your data for analysis. This makes it easy for anyone with SQL skills to quickly analyze large-scale datasets.
Athena is out-of-the-box integrated with AWS Glue Data Catalog, allowing you to create a unified metadata repository across various services, crawl data sources to discover schemas and populate your Catalog with new and modified table and partition definitions, and maintain schema versioning.
Request support for your proof-of-concept or evaluation
Benefits
Start querying instantly
Serverless, no ETL
Athena is serverless. You can quickly query your data without having to setup and manage any servers or data warehouses. Just point to your data in Amazon S3, define the schema, and start querying using the built-in query editor. Amazon Athena allows you to tap into all your data in S3 without the need to set up complex processes to extract, transform, and load the data (ETL).
Pay per query
Only pay for data scanned
With Amazon Athena, you pay only for the queries that you run. You are charged $5 per terabyte scanned by your queries. You can save from 30% to 90% on your per-query costs and get better performance by compressing, partitioning, and converting your data into columnar formats. Athena queries data directly in Amazon S3. There are no additional storage charges beyond S3.
Open, powerful, standard
Built on Presto, runs standard SQL
Amazon Athena uses Presto with ANSI SQL support and works with a variety of standard data formats, including CSV, JSON, ORC, Avro, and Parquet. Athena is ideal for quick, ad-hoc querying but it can also handle complex analysis, including large joins, window functions, and arrays. Amazon Athena is highly available; and executes queries using compute resources across multiple facilities and multiple devices in each facility. Amazon Athena uses Amazon S3 as its underlying data store, making your data highly available and durable.
Fast, really fast
Interactive performance even for large datasets
With Amazon Athena, you don't have to worry about having enough compute resources to get fast, interactive query performance. Amazon Athena automatically executes queries in parallel, so most results come back within seconds.
Customers
Movable Ink uses Amazon Athena to query seven years’ worth of historical data and get results in moments, with the flexibility to explore data for deeper insights.
Read the case study
Atlassian built a self-service data lake using Amazon Athena and other AWS Analytics services.
Watch the video
OLX reduced costs and improved time to market by deploying Athena across their organization.
Partners
Upsolver is a data lake ETL service. It provides a visual, SQL-based interface for creating real-time tables in Athena with little engineering overhead and according to performance best practices. Upsolver's ETL also enables updates/deletes to tables in Athena for common CDC and compliance use cases.
Learn more  | Contact
What's New
date
1
...
Check out the product features
Learn more about the key features of Amazon Athena.
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building on the console
Get started building with Amazon Athena on the AWS Management Console.
Sign in