General
Q: What is Natural Language Processing?
Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a way for computers to analyze, understand, and derive meaning from textual information in a smart and useful way. By utilizing NLP, you can extract important phrases, sentiment, syntax, key entities such as brand, date, location, person, etc., and the language of the text.
Show less
Q: What is Amazon Comprehend?
Amazon Comprehend is a natural language processing (NLP) service that uses machine learning to find meaning and insights in text.
Q: What can I do with Amazon Comprehend?
You can use Amazon Comprehend to identify the language of the text, extract key phrases, places, people, brands, or events, understand sentiment about products or services, and identify the main topics from a library of documents. The source of this text could be web pages, social media feeds, emails, or articles. You can also feed Amazon Comprehend a set of text documents, and it will identify topics (or group of words) that best represent the information in the collection. The output from Amazon Comprehend can be used to understand customer feedback, provide a better search experience through search filters and uses topics to categorize documents.
Q: How do I get started with Amazon Comprehend?
You can get started with Amazon Comprehend from the AWS console. Your free tier for 12 months starts from the time you submit your first request. See product documentation on how to use Amazon Comprehend APIs in your application.
Q: What are the most common use cases for Amazon Comprehend?
Q: What are the most common use cases of Amazon Comprehend?
The most common use cases include:
Voice of customer analytics: You can gauge whether customer sentiment is positive, neutral, negative, or mixed based on the feedback you receive via support calls, emails, social media, and other online channels.
Semantic search: You can use Amazon Comprehend to provide a better search experience by enabling your search engine to index key phrases, entities, and sentiment. This enables you to focus the search on the intent and the context of the articles instead of basic keywords.
Knowledge management and discovery: You can analyze a collection of documents and automatically organize them by topic. You can then use the topics to personalize content for your customers.
Q: Do I have to be a natural language processing expert to use Amazon Comprehend?
No, you don’t need NLP expertise to use Amazon Comprehend. You only need to call Amazon Comprehend’s API, and the service will handle the machine learning required to extract the relevant data from the text.
Q: Is Amazon Comprehend a managed service?
Amazon Comprehend is a fully managed and continuously trained service, so you don’t have to manage the scaling of resources, maintenance of code, or maintaining the training data.
Q: Does Amazon Comprehend learn over time?
Yes, Amazon Comprehend uses machine learning is continuously being trained to make it better for your use cases.
Q: Which AWS regions is Amazon Comprehend available?
For a list of the supported Amazon Comprehend AWS regions, please visit the AWS Region Table for all AWS global infrastructure. Also for more information, see Regions and Endpoints in the AWS General Reference.
Q: What security measures does Amazon Comprehend have?
Requests to the Amazon Comprehend API and console are made over a secure (SSL) connection. You can use AWS Identity and Access Management (AWS IAM) to control which IAM users have access to specific Amazon Comprehend actions and resources.
Usage
Q: Where do I store my data?
You can use user Amazon Comprehend to read your data from Amazon S3. You can also write the results from Amazon Comprehend to a storage service, database, or data warehouse.
Q: How do I know if the service can process my data?
For text analysis APIs, you will receive an HTTP status code of 200 indicating successful processing. If your data can't be processed or exceeds service limits, you will get an appropriate HTTP error code.
Q: How do I know if Amazon Comprehend is giving accurate results?
The service will return a confidence score for each result. Low confidence scores mean that the service’s confidence is low that it is correct. Conversely, if the service is highly confident, the score will be closer to 1.
Q: Can I import or use my own NLP model with Amazon Comprehend?
No. At the current time, Comprehend does not support custom models.
Pricing
Q: How is Amazon Comprehend priced?
Refer to the Amazon Comprehend pricing page to learn more about pricing tiers and discounts.
Data privacy
Q: Are text inputs processed by Amazon Comprehend stored, and how are they used by AWS?
Amazon Comprehend may store and use text inputs processed by the service solely to provide and maintain the service and to develop and improve the quality of Amazon Comprehend and other Amazon machine-learning/artificial-intelligence technologies. This does not apply to Amazon Comprehend Medical. Use of your content is important for continuous improvement of your Amazon Comprehend customer experience, including the development and training of related technologies. We do not use any personally identifiable information that may be contained in your content to target products, services or marketing to you or your end users. Your trust, privacy, and the security of your content are our highest priority and we implement appropriate and sophisticated technical and physical controls, including encryption at rest and in transit, designed to prevent unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, your content and ensure that our use complies with our commitments to you. Please see https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/data-privacy-faq/ for more information. You may opt out of having your content used to improve and develop the quality of Amazon Comprehend and other Amazon machine-learning/artificial-intelligence technologies by using an AWS Organizations opt-out policy. For information about how to opt out, see Managing AI services opt-out policy
Q: Who has access to my content that is processed and stored by Amazon Comprehend?
Only authorized employees will have access to your content that is processed by Amazon Comprehend. Your trust, privacy, and the security of your content are our highest priority and we implement appropriate and sophisticated technical and physical controls, including encryption at rest and in transit, designed to prevent unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, your content and ensure that our use complies with our commitments to you. Please see the AWS data privacy FAQs for more information.
Q: Do I still own my content that is processed and stored by Amazon Comprehend?
You always retain ownership of your content and we will only use your content with your consent.
Q: Is the content processed by Amazon Comprehend moved outside the AWS region where I am using Amazon Comprehend?
Any content processed by Amazon Comprehend is encrypted and stored at rest in the AWS region where you are using Amazon Comprehend. Some portion of content processed by Amazon Comprehend may be stored in another AWS region solely in connection with the continuous improvement and development of your Amazon Comprehend customer experience and other Amazon machine-learning/artificial-intelligence technologies. This does not apply Amazon Comprehend Medical. Your trust, privacy, and the security of your content are our highest priority and we implement appropriate and sophisticated technical and physical controls, including encryption at rest and in transit, designed to prevent unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, your content and ensure that our use complies with our commitments to you. Please see the https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/data-privacy-faq/ for more information.
Q: Can I use Amazon Comprehend in connection with websites, programs or other applications that are directed or targeted to children under age 13 and subject to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA)?
Yes, subject to your compliance with the Amazon Comprehend Service Terms, including your obligation to provide any required notices and obtain any required verifiable parental consent under COPPA, you may use Amazon Comprehend in connection with websites, programs, or other applications that are directed or targeted, in whole or in part, to children under age 13.
Q: How do I determine whether my website, program, or application is subject to COPPA?
For information about the requirements of COPPA and guidance for determining whether your website, program, or other application is subject to COPPA, please refer directly to the resources provided and maintained by the United States Federal Trade Commission. This site also contains information regarding how to determine whether a service is directed or targeted, in whole or in part, to children under age 13.
Amazon Comprehend Medical
Q: What is Amazon Comprehend Medical?
Amazon Comprehend Medical is a natural language processing service that makes it easy to use machine learning to extract relevant medical information from unstructured text. Using Amazon Comprehend Medical, you can quickly and accurately gather information, such as medical condition, medication, dosage, strength, and frequency from a variety of sources, like doctors’ notes, clinical trial reports, and patient health records.
Q: What can I do with Amazon Comprehend Medical?
Amazon Comprehend Medical uses advanced machine learning models to accurately and quickly identify medical information such as medical conditions, and medication, and determine their relationship to each other, for instance, medication and dosage. You access Comprehend Medical through a simple API call, no machine learning expertise is required, no complicated rules to write, and no models to train.
You can use the extracted medical information and their relationships to build applications for use cases, like clinical decision support, revenue cycle management (medical coding), and clinical trial management. Because Comprehend Medical is HIPAA eligible and can quickly identify protected health information (PHI), such as name, age, and medical record number, you can also use it to create applications that securely process, maintain, and transmit PHI.
Please note. When using Amazon Comprehend Medical to identify protected health information, please recall that the service provides confidence scores that indicate the level of confidence in the accuracy of the extracted entities. You should evaluate these confidence scores and identify the right confidence threshold for your use case. For specific compliance use cases, we recommend you use additional human review or other methods to confirm the accuracy of extracted PHI.
Q: How do I get started with Amazon Comprehend Medical?
You can get started with Amazon Comprehend Medical from the AWS Management console or using the SDK. Refer to this technical documentation page for details.
Amazon Comprehend Medical provides a free tier so you can test out the service. Refer to this pricing page.
Q: Do I have to be a natural language processing (NLP) expert to use Amazon Comprehend Medical?
No, you don’t need NLP expertise to use Amazon Comprehend Medical. You only need to call Amazon Comprehend’s API, and the service will handle the machine learning required to extract the relevant data from the text.
Q: Does Amazon Comprehend Medical learn over time?
Yes, Amazon Comprehend is continuously trained to make it better for your use cases. Amazon Comprehend Medical does not use customer data used with the service to train the models.
Q: In which AWS regions in Amazon Comprehend Medical available?
For a list of the supported Amazon Comprehend AWS regions, please visit the AWS Region Table for all AWS global infrastructure.
Q: What security measures does Amazon Comprehend Medical have?
Requests to the Amazon Comprehend Medical APIs and console are made over a secure (SSL) connection. You can use AWS Identity and Access Management (AWS IAM) to control which IAM users have access to specific Amazon Comprehend Medical actions and resources.
Q: What else should I know before using the Amazon Comprehend Medical service?
Amazon Comprehend Medical is not a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. You and your end users are responsible for exercising your and their own discretion, experience, and judgment in determining the correctness, completeness, timeliness, and suitability of any information provided by Amazon Comprehend Medical. You and your end users are solely responsible for any decisions, advice, actions, and/or inactions based on the use of Amazon Comprehend Medical.
Amazon Comprehend Medical may not accurately identify protected health information in all circumstances, and does not meet the requirements for de-identification of protected health information in accordance with HIPAA. You are responsible for reviewing any output provided by Amazon Comprehend Medical to ensure it meets your needs.
Q: How is Amazon Comprehend Medical priced?
Refer to the Amazon Comprehend Medical pricing page to learn more about pricing tiers.
Q: Is the content processed by Amazon Comprehend Medical used for any purpose other than to provide and maintain the service?
Amazon Comprehend Medical does not use content processed by the service for any reason other than to provide and maintain the service. Content processed by the service is not used to develop or improve the quality of Amazon Comprehend Medical or other Amazon machine-learning/artificial-intelligence technologies, and will not be stored in any AWS region other than the region in which you are using the service. You always retain ownership of your content and we will only use your content with your consent.
Q: Can I use Amazon Comprehend Medical in connection with websites, programs or other applications that are directed or targeted to children under age 13 and subject to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA)?
Yes, subject to your compliance with the Amazon Comprehend Medical Service Terms, including your obligation to provide any required notices and obtain any required verifiable parental consent under COPPA, you may use Amazon Comprehend Medical in connection with websites, programs, or other applications that are directed or targeted, in whole or in part, to children under age 13.
Learn more about Amazon Comprehend features
Visit the features page
Ready to get started?
Sign up
Have more questions?
Contact us
FAQs
Amazon Comprehend