AWS Well-Architected Tool
Review your architecture and adopt best practices
Get started with the AWS Well-Architected Tool
The AWS Well-Architected Tool is designed to help you review the state of your applications and workloads, and it provides a central place for architectural best practices and guidance. The AWS Well-Architected Tool is based on the AWS Well-Architected Framework, which was developed to help cloud architects build secure, high-performing, resilient, and efficient application infrastructures. The Framework has been used in tens of thousands of workload reviews by AWS solutions architects, and it provides a consistent approach for evaluating your cloud architecture and implementing designs that will scale with your application needs over time.
In addition to the standard guidance provided by the AWS Well-Architected Framework and AWS-developed lenses, the AWS Well-Architected Tool allows you to add specific best practice guidance using custom lenses. By developing your own questions and evaluating your workloads using your organization’s best practices, you can perform reviews based on technology or governance requirements specific to your industry.
To use the AWS Well-Architected Tool, just define your workload, apply one of the AWS Well-Architected lenses or your own custom lens, and begin your review. The tool then provides an action plan to help you build for the cloud using the defined best practices. The AWS Well-Architected Tool is available at no charge in the AWS Management Console.
Navigating Best Practices with the AWS Well-Architected Tool (1:34)
Benefits
Get free architectural guidance
Benefit from access to knowledge and best practices used by AWS solutions architects whenever you need it. Answer questions about your application or workload, and the AWS Well-Architected Tool delivers an action plan with step-by-step guidance on areas for improvement.
Review your workloads consistently
Use a single tool and a consistent process to review and measure your cloud architectures. The AWS Well-Architected Tool allows you to monitor the status of multiple workloads across your organization and helps you understand potential risks. With the action plan, you can identify next steps for improvement, drive architectural decisions, and build for the cloud with confidence.
Identify and implement improvements
Support continuous improvement throughout the workload lifecycle. The AWS Well-Architected Tool makes it easy to save point-in-time milestones and track changes to your workload. Initiate new reviews as desired to help ensure that your architecture improves over time.
Customize your review
You can create custom lenses and share them across your entire organization to measure workloads consistently. Specify rules to help you determine which options can result in a high or medium risk, and provide guidance on resolving those risks.
How it works
Step 1: Define workload
Workloads can be simple, such as a static website, or complex, such as microservices architectures with multiple data stores and many components.
Step 2: Conduct architectural review
Review your workloads against AWS best practices by answering a set of foundational questions, with the option to create your own custom lens.
Step 3: Apply best practices
The AWS Well-Architected Tool delivers a list of issues found in your workloads and step-by-step guidance to make improvements.
Customers
Liberty Mutual
“The Well-Architected Framework has benefited every one of our teams who have implemented it. There were things that people didn't know they could do until we adopted it. We’re thinking about building a lasting effect with Well-Architected and making it something that engineers enjoy using constantly.”
Matt Coulter, Technical Architect - Liberty Mutual
Expedia
“The Well-Architected Review process helped us see where we were on track and enabled us to check off what worked. But, more importantly, it gave us critical feedback to improve our platform since we’re always looking at how to serve our customers better.
”
Raja Nadar, Principal Software Engineer - Expedia
Cox Automotive
“I definitely recommend using the Well-Architected Review to help improve your current systems. But I also recommend pulling it far into your process. Introduce it to teams earlier. If you leverage it beyond going through it with a team when they’re done, you can use it as the basis to design the application and design a truly efficient architecture up front.”
Kevin Thorley, Enterprise Architect - Cox Automotive
AWS Well-Architected Partner Program
AWS Well-Architected Partner Program members have in-depth training on the Well-Architected Framework and can help you implement best practices, measure the state of your workloads, and make improvements where assistance is required.   Learn more
Are you an APN Partner interested in joining the AWS Well-Architected Partner Program? Learn how to be discovered through a link in the AWS Well-Architected Tool.   Find out more
Blogs
1
...
No blog posts have been found at this time. Please see the AWS Blog for other resources.
What's New
date
Please see the AWS What's New page for recent launches.
Have questions?
Visit the AWS Well-Architected Tool FAQ page.
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started building with AWS Well-Architected Tool in the AWS Management Console.
Sign in