AWS Data Exchange
Easily find and subscribe to third-party data in the cloud
Explore available data products
Learn about becoming a data provider
Latest Feature:
Introducing AWS Data Exchange for Amazon Redshift - Learn more
AWS Data Exchange makes it easy to find, subscribe to, and use third-party data in the cloud. Qualified data providers include category leaders such as Reuters, which curates data from over 2.2 million unique news stories per year in multiple languages; Change Healthcare, which processes and anonymizes more than 14 billion healthcare transactions and $1 trillion in claims annually; Dun & Bradstreet, which maintains a database of more than 330 million global business records; and Foursquare, which derives location data is derived from 220 million unique consumers and includes more than 60 million global commercial venues.
After you've subscribed to a data product, you can use the AWS Data Exchange API to load data directly into Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) and use a range of AWS analytics and machine learning (ML) services to analyze it. For example, property insurers can subscribe to historical weather data to calibrate insurance coverage requirements in different geographies; restaurants can subscribe to population and location data to identify optimal regions for expansion; academic researchers can subscribe to carbon dioxide emission data to conduct studies on climate change; and healthcare professionals can subscribe to aggregated data from historical clinical trials to accelerate their research activities.
For data providers, AWS Data Exchange makes it easy to reach the millions of AWS customers migrating to the cloud by removing the need to build and maintain infrastructure for data storage, delivery, billing, and entitling.
You can browse AWS Marketplace for thousands of data products from hundreds of qualified data providers, including established and emerging category leaders such as Reuters, Foursquare, TransUnion, Change Healthcare, Virtusa, Pitney Bowes, TP ICAP, Vortexa, IMDb, Epsilon, Enigma, TruFactor, ADP, Dun & Bradstreet, Compagnie Financière Tradition, Verisk, Crux Informatics, Acxiom, Rearc, and many more.
Introduction to AWS Data Exchange (3:02)
Benefits
Quickly find diverse data in one place
AWS Data Exchange has hundreds of commercial data products from category leaders in financial services, healthcare, retail, media and entertainment, and other industries. AWS Data Exchange also has hundreds of free data sets, including both data collected from popular public sources and trials for commercial products so you can explore before you subscribe. You can easily find and subscribe to data products in AWS Marketplace and stay current with revisions providers publish.
Efficiently access data in the cloud
AWS Data Exchange removes the friction of finding, licensing, and using data sets. Without AWS Data Exchange, you might spend days or even weeks licensing data and moving it where you need it to power your analytics. AWS Data Exchange simplifies access to data—eliminating the need to receive physical media, manage FTP credentials, or integrate with different APIs from multiple providers. When providers publish updates to their data sets, you will receive a notification so you can automatically consume new data as it’s published.
Easily analyze new data
AWS Data Exchange enables you to immediately use data you subscribe to with the full portfolio of AWS analytics services, such as big data processing with Amazon EMR; data warehousing with Amazon Redshift; instant querying with Amazon Athena; data integration and extract, transform, and load (ETL) with AWS Glue; and building data lakes with AWS Lake Formation. You can quickly copy data to Amazon S3 and immediately transform and process it, analyze it, or build machine learning models on it.
Can’t find the data you need? Let us know!
AWS Data Exchange is always looking to recruit new data providers. If you'd like to access a provider that you don't see in the catalog today, please let us know and our team will contact that provider on your behalf.
Learn about the Data Discovery team
Use cases
Financial services
Banks, insurers, and asset managers can use AWS Data Exchange to subscribe to products containing market data, news archives, compensation benchmarks, industry profiles, company sentiments, and more. These customers can seamlessly integrate the data they subscribe to with their own data to power the portfolio risk modeling, trading strategies, and advisory services they are migrating to the cloud. Customers can also combine these traditional financial data sources with alternative (nonfinancial) data sets such as places of interest visitation and aggregated demographics data.
Consumer and retail
Consumer and retail companies can subscribe to location, movement, weather, and industry profiling data and combine it with their own data to better understand market segmentation. For example, retailers can use aggregated demographics and visitation data to size target market segments and identify where to invest in more retail locations. Visitation data can also help retailers adjust staffing levels to meet fluctuations in demand for their retail locations. Retailers can also use weather forecast data to anticipate customer needs and optimize inventory planning.
Healthcare and life sciences
Pharmaceutical companies, health insurers, and healthcare providers can use AWS Data Exchange to find and subscribe to products that help them with crucial tasks such as planning clinical trials, building insurance plans, researching new drugs, and improving patient lives. These customers can incorporate the data they generate, sometimes across several organizations, with third-party products that range from providing aggregated health claims data to drug switching patterns, fitness benchmarks, life expectancy benchmarks, and more.
Customers
“At Accenture, we’ve been creating a platform to support our clients that are facing supply chain instability due to workforce, climate, pandemic, or social impacts. Building resiliency requires visibility into labor, weather, commodities, Tier N challenges and real-time inputs from suppliers in a collaborative environment. Using AWS Data Exchange, we are able to quickly consume the most up-to-date data to inform our models, like the news and sentiment data from Amenity Analytics. This allows us to create predictive insights into early supply chain risk factors, simulate what-if scenarios to minimize costs and delays, and automatically adjust to supplier disruptions in real time."
Prasad Satyavolu, North America Lead, Digital Manufacturing and Operations, Industry X - Accenture
“At Capgemini we are committed to unleashing the power of purpose-driven growth for financial services organizations through innovative data-driven products and services based on ESG principles. Leveraging AWS Data Exchange to consume Arabesque’s ESG data enables us to deliver intelligent ESG solutions with hyper-personalization to drive sustainable banking and investing for retail customers faster and easier than ever before.”
Tej Vakta, Head of ESG Solutions, Financial Services Insights & Data - Capgemini
“By integrating the AWS Data Exchange API into ConvergeHEALTH Miner, we’re giving our customers a quick and easy way to find, subscribe to, and use data from third parties alongside the data they’re already generating and analyzing in the cloud. AWS Data Exchange is unlocking a number of data sources that have traditionally been locked in siloes spanning multiple organizations, and gives healthcare stakeholders a scalable and secure service to create new collaborative business models to reimagine how they approach research, clinical trials, pharmacovigilance, population health, and reimbursement.”
Brett Davis, Principal at Deloitte Consulting & General Manager - ConvergeHEALTH
“ESG data is being integrated into a widening array of business processes. Rather than delivering data one client at a time, CSRHub can leverage ADX to reach these new markets and quickly integrate its data into their management systems.”
Bahar Gidwani, Cofounder and CTO - CSRHub
"To provide the most comprehensive and compliant integrated data catalogue and an end-to-end platform for data operationalization, Demyst relies on getting quality data in a consistent and reliable manner. Purchasing data through AWS Data Exchange has enabled us to accelerate the data procurement process. We’ve saved weeks on setting up subscriptions by using AWS Account IDs and accelerated data delivery because Amazon S3 protocols are trusted and verified in-advance by both Demyst and data providers. By streamlining our purchase, contracting, and delivery of data products through the AWS Data Exchange, we can better help our customers rapidly test, configure, and implement data-driven solutions.”
Mark Hookey, CEO and Founder - Demyst
“Pressing population health problems of today require not only modern analytic techniques, but also access to new trustworthy sources of data. Working with AWS Data Exchange enabled us to apply our advanced machine learning and comparative effectiveness techniques to contemporary sources of data our clinical researchers have not used before. These innovations have led to several novel studies and grant applications with new partners.”
Dr. Michael Pencina PhD, Vice Dean for Data Science and Information Technology - Duke University School of Medicine
“Our core value proposition is telling our customers where they can stream the movies and TV shows they want to watch. Therefore, accurate and timely metadata about the titles in our catalog is critical. The combination of IMDb’s high quality data and AWS Data Exchange’s capabilities enable us to easily and quickly acquire that title metadata and use it in our data workflows running on AWS.”
Thenuka Karunaratne, Founder and CEO - Flixed
“AWS Data Exchange enables customers to achieve operational efficiency and realize savings through four key functions: storage, entitlement, billing, and delivery (distribution). Subscribers and providers have experienced complications and inefficiencies in each of these areas; AWS aims to remedy that problem with AWS Data Exchange.”
Jeffrey Castilla, Research Team Lead - Frost & Sullivan
"AWS Data Exchange is a key component of Goldman Sachs’s financial cloud strategy because it reduces friction for sourcing financial data from new and existing third-party providers and enables Goldman Sachs to focus on delivering our core services and differentiated data analytics to better serve our clients.”
Marco Argenti, Co-Chief Information Officer - Goldman Sachs
“To remain competitive in the future, organizations must innovate and engage their people and consumers in new ways to drive value. We believe AWS Data Exchange is a mechanism to do just that.”
Steve Patterson, Managing Director, Data Management and Analytics - Huron Consulting
"Using AWS Data Exchange allows us to easily consume and use
Arabesque S-Ray data in the Investics Cloud Ecosystem (ICE), our AWS- based investment data and analytics ecosystem. With ICE, we stitch together the robust ESG data from Arabesque S-Ray, with client portfolio information, and our investment analysis data to provide asset, portfolio and sector-level sustainability metrics. We then use AWS Data Exchange to distribute the final product, Investics DARTS, to AWS customers. Institutional asset managers and asset owners can license
Investics DARTS data via AWS Data Exchange and programmatically receive daily updates, enabling them to easily monitor ESG compliance and performance metrics on their entire investment portfolio."
William Pryor, President - Investics
"We’re always integrating new data into our research as we look to identify new investment opportunities across asset classes. With AWS Data Exchange, we can put more data into production more quickly, and make better decisions about how we invest our clients’ capital.“
Emil Werr, Head of Data and Analytics - KKR
“The application of new and ever more powerful technologies across the drug discovery and development continuum is generating and requiring access to unprecedented volumes and variety of data. At Merck we recognize that seamless and effective management of large, complex and diverse data streams is essential to gaining the insights necessary to translate breakthrough science into medicines that deliver meaningful benefit to patients.”
Michael Klobuchar, Senior Vice President Operations - Merck Research Laboratories
“At Neuravest, our core business is applying machine learning to non-traditional datasets and creating investment portfolios based on the resulting insights—all on behalf of our asset management customers. We are excited to develop new environmental, social and governance (ESG) solutions for our customers by applying our machine learning expertise to
Arabesque S-Ray data. With AWS Data Exchange, we can quickly source high quality machine-readable ESG datasets, and easily integrate them into our solutions—many of which already run on AWS.”
Erez Katz, Cofounder and CEO - Neuravest
"Working with AWS Data Exchange and Foursquare allowed us to seamlessly access over 52 million global point-of-interest records and improve our business catalog coverage."
Mai Nguyen, Operations Manager - Nextdoor
"At PG Ventures, we set out to solve a very specific problem: How to identify the risks in soil relocation from underground mining activities in Central Europe. CATALYST Insights, a Canadian Earth observation company, provided us with the ground displacement data we needed to uncover these man-made disasters. We use AWS Data Exchange to consume CATALYST’s Insights data, which supports planning for immediate and future impacts as coal mining slows globally as a result of carbon neutral requirements. The flexibility of CATALYST's services, combined with the ease of licensing their data via AWS Data Exchange, has enabled us to start mitigating these mining collapses and prevent future damage.”
Christoph Schmidt, Cofounder - PG Ventures
“AWS Data Exchange is a treasure trove for the System Level Design group. Not only did it help me expand the scope of our group research significantly, but it also made my teaching more engaging and more relevant to addressing societal problems of great interest.”
Radu Marculescu, Lead of the System Level Design Group - UT Austin
"By leveraging AWS Data Exchange and Weather Trends data, we can be confident that our wines will arrive in perfect condition, tasting no different to our customers than when our best-in-class wine team tasted it at the winery."
Andrew Walleck, COO - Wine Access
"Mi TVs have revolutionized the smart TV landscape globally, and we are committed to ensuring our customers have the power to choose what they wish to watch through our PatchWall user interface. Focused on offering solutions that are more immersive, collaborative, and interactive than ever before, PatchWall 4.0 eases content discovery journey for Mi TV users. Mi India—India’s #1 smart TV brand—now integrates IMDb fan ratings and other authoritative entertainment data, provided via AWS Data Exchange, onto more than 30 streaming services available with PatchWall 4.0. AWS Data Exchange greatly improves operational burdens typically associated with procuring, accessing, and loading data into our workloads with its cloud-native delivery and management features, making faster availability of IMDb’s metadata for our customers."
Xenia Tang, Business Development Director - Xiaomi
"Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, has over 50,000 restaurants in more than 150 countries and territories primarily operating the company’s brands—KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell—global leaders of the chicken, pizza and Mexican-style food categories. The Company’s family of brands also includes The Habit Burger Grill, a fast-casual restaurant concept specializing in made-to-order chargrilled burgers, sandwiches and more. Our teams across the globe are in constant need of hyper local and accurate data to power our site selection and other geospatial use cases. Working with Foursquare and AWS Data Exchange has enabled us to seamlessly procure the exact Point-of-Interest data set we needed across dozens of markets. And all delivered to us directly in the cloud, alongside our data analytics and tools."
Nikhil Jain, Senior Director of Decision Sciences - Yum! Brands
"AWS is an obvious choice for analytics and data services, and AWS Data Exchange for APIs was a real game-changer for us. It offers the standard security framework using IAM, which is critical for us as a healthcare company, and enables our engineers to focus on building solutions, not managing data pipelines."
Gopal Ramamurthi, Vice President, Analytics & Global Data Management - Vyaire Medical
Data product examples
Reuters Newswire Archive (30 days)
Insurance Agencies and Brokerages (US) - Industry Marketing File
IBM MarketScan Research Databases
Foursquare Visit Data: April 2020 QSR Chains
Crux Informatics Inflation (CPI) | OECD
Epsilon Retail - Consumer Data Insights - Platinum (MI Trial)
Enigma Small Business Administration (SBA) Historical Loans (7a and 504)
QIAGEN OncoLand (Example Dataset)
Find data products now
Discover new sources of data.
Learn more
Become a data provider
Explore how to list your own data products.
Check out key features
Learn more about AWS Data Exchange.