Amazon EC2
Secure and resizable compute capacity to support virtually any workload
Get started with Amazon EC2
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers. Amazon EC2’s simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction. It provides you with complete control of your computing resources and lets you run on Amazon’s proven computing environment.
Amazon EC2 offers the broadest and deepest compute platform with choice of processor, storage, networking, operating system, and purchase model. We offer the fastest processors in the cloud and we are the only cloud with 400 Gbps ethernet networking. We have the most powerful GPU instances for machine learning training and graphics workloads, as well as the lowest cost-per-inference instances in the cloud. More SAP, HPC, Machine Learning, and Windows workloads run on AWS than any other cloud. Click here to learn What's New with Amazon EC2.
Millions of customers ranging from enterprises to startups
350+ instances for virtually every business need
24 regions and
76 availability zones globally
Choice of Intel, AMD, and Arm-based processors
Reliable, scalable, infrastructure on demand
Increase or decrease capacity within minutes, not hours or days
SLA commitment of 99.99% availability for each Amazon EC2 region. Each region consists of at least 3 availability zones
The AWS Region/AZ model has been recognized by Gartner as the recommended approach for running enterprise applications that require high availability
"Since March, we have seen market volumes increase by 2-3x…We automatically turn on and off up to 100,000 compute nodes in a single day. We would have been unable to handle this surge in volume within our on-premises data center."
Steve Randich
Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer, FINRA
Secure compute for your applications
With the AWS Nitro System virtualization resources are offloaded to dedicated hardware and software minimizing the attack surface
Lockdown security model prohibits administrative access eliminating possibility of human error and tampering
AWS supports 89 security standards and compliance certifications including PCI-DSS, HIPAA/HITECH, FedRAMP, GDPR, FIPS 140-2, and NIST 800-171, which is meaningfully more than any other cloud provider
“We looked at many public clouds but AWS scored most highly against our key criteria, which included stability, security, and breadth of services.”
Lawrence Fong GM IT Solutions, Cathay Pacific
Flexible options to optimize cost
With On Demand, pay for only the compute you need. Gain up to 40% better price performance with AWS Graviton2-based instances or 10% lower costs with AMD-based instances.
Amazon EC2 Spot can reduce costs up to 90% or accelerate performance for fault-tolerant workloads such as big data, containers, web services, and CI/CD.
AWS Savings Plans offers savings of up to 72% on Amazon EC2 instances usage, regardless of instance family, size, OS, tenancy or AWS Region.
"We tested the new M6g instances using industry standard LMbench and certain Java benchmarks and saw up to 50% improvement over M5 instances. We’re excited about the introduction of AWS Graviton2-based Amazon EC2 instances."
Ed Hunter
Director of Performance and Operating Systems, Netflix
"We tested the new M6g instances using industry standard LMbench and certain Java benchmarks and saw up to 50% improvement over M5 instances. We’re excited about the introduction of AWS Graviton2-based Amazon EC2 instances."
Ed Hunter
Director of Performance and Operating Systems, Netflix
Flexible options to optimize cost
With On Demand, pay for only the compute you need. Gain up to 40% better price performance with AWS Graviton2-based instances or 10% lower costs with AMD-based instances.
Amazon EC2 Spot can reduce costs up to 90% or accelerate performance for fault-tolerant workloads such as big data, containers, web services, and CI/CD.
AWS Savings Plans offers savings of up to 72% on Amazon EC2 instances usage, regardless of instance family, size, OS, tenancy or AWS Region
Easy to migrate and build apps
Get started quickly through AWS Migration Tools, AWS Managed Services, or Amazon Lightsail
AWS Professional Services, AWS Support, and AWS Training and Certification help you along the way
Tens of thousands of APN Partners to help companies build, market, and sell their AWS offerings
"Management was easy—it was very simple to upload a machine to the platform and simply adjust sizing according to need afterwards."
Sadao Matsuda SAP IT Manager, VWCO
Building Blocks
Amazon EC2 offers the broadest and deepest choice of instances, built on the latest compute, storage, and networking technologies and engineered for high performance and security.
Faster innovation and increased security with AWS Nitro System
The AWS Nitro System is the underlying platform for our next generation of EC2 instances that offloads many of the traditional virtualization functions to dedicated hardware and software to deliver high performance, high availability, and high security while also reducing virtualization overhead. The Nitro System is a rich collection of building blocks that can be assembled in many different ways, giving us the flexibility to design and rapidly deliver new EC2 instance types with an ever-broadening selection of compute, storage, memory, and networking options.
Choice of processors
A choice of latest generation Intel Xeon, AMD EPYC, and AWS Graviton CPUs enables you to find the best balance of performance and price for your workloads. EC2 instances powered by NVIDIA GPUs and AWS Inferentia are also available for workloads that require accelerated computing such as machine learning, gaming, and graphic intensive applications.
High performance storage
Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) provides easy to use, high performance block storage for use with Amazon EC2. Amazon EBS is available in a range of volume types that allow you to optimize storage performance and cost for your workloads. Many EC2 instance types also come with options for local NVMe SSD storage for applications that require low latency.
Enhanced networking
AWS is the first and only cloud to offer 400 Gbps enhanced Ethernet networking for compute instances. Enhanced networking enables you to get significantly higher packet per second (PPS), lower network jitter, and lower latency. For high performance computing (HPC) applications, Elastic Fabric Adapter is a network interface for Amazon EC2 instances that offers low-latency, high-bandwidth interconnect between compute nodes to help scale applications to thousands of cores.
Choice of purchasing model
We offer a choice of multiple purchasing models with On-Demand, Spot Instances, and Savings Plan. With Spot Instances, you can save up to 90% for fault-tolerant workloads. With Savings Plan, you can save up to 72% savings with committed usage and flexibility across EC2, Fargate, and Lambda. You can also optimize your costs with recommendations on instances, built into EC2 with AWS Compute Optimizer or through tools such as Cost Explorer.
Case Studies
What’s New
date
date
1
…
…
Check out the EC2 product features
Learn more about features for instance security, storage, networking, autoscaling, and more
Learn more »
Get started with EC2
Follow these steps to to get started with Amazon EC2.
Learn more »
Dive deep into EC2 resources and tools
Learn tips and techniques to get the most out of your experience with Amazon EC2.
Learn more »