AWS Snow Family
Highly-secure, portable devices to collect and process data at the edge, and migrate data into and out of AWS
Get started with AWS Snow Family
AWS Snow Family overview
Applications are moving to the cloud faster today than ever before. A new category of applications requires increased capabilities and performance at the edge of the cloud, or even beyond the edge of the network.  AWS provides edge infrastructure and software that moves data processing and analysis as close as necessary to where data is created in order to deliver intelligent, real-time responsiveness and streamline the amount of data transferred. This includes deploying AWS managed hardware and software to locations outside AWS Regions and even beyond AWS Outposts.  The AWS Snow Family helps customers that need to run operations in austere, non-data center environments, and in locations where there's lack of consistent network connectivity. The Snow Family, comprised of AWS Snowcone, AWS Snowball, and AWS Snowmobile, offers a number of physical devices and capacity points, most with built-in computing capabilities. These services help physically transport up to exabytes of data into and out of AWS. Snow Family devices are owned and managed by AWS and integrate with AWS security, monitoring, storage management, and computing capabilities.
Introducing AWS Snowcone
Meet the newest, smallest member of the AWS Snow Family: AWS Snowcone, a portable, rugged, and secure edge computing and data transfer device
Explore the new AWS Snowcone with Bill Vass and Jeff Barr (2:46)
AWS News Blog: Introducing AWS Snowcone
CNBC profile: How the AWS Snow Family helps customers move massive amounts of data to the cloud
Fireside Chat: Evolving at the Edge with the AWS Snow Family
AWS OpsHub: A graphical user interface to manage AWS Snow Family devices and computing resources
AWS Snow Family members
AWS Snowcone
AWS Snowcone is the smallest member of the AWS Snow Family of edge computing and data transfer devices. Snowcone is portable, rugged, and secure. You can use Snowcone to collect, process, and move data to AWS, either offline by shipping the device, or online with AWS DataSync.
Running applications in disconnected environments and connected edge locations can be challenging because these locations often lack the space, power, and cooling needed for data center IT equipment. AWS Snowcone stores data securely in edge locations, and can run edge computing workloads that use AWS IoT Greengrass or Amazon EC2 instances. Snowcone devices are small and weigh 4.5 lbs. (2.1 kg), so you can carry one in a backpack or fit it in tight spaces for IoT, vehicular, or even drone use cases.
Learn more about Snowcone
AWS Snowball
AWS Snowball is a data migration and edge computing device that comes in two device options: Compute Optimized and Storage Optimized.  Snowball Edge Storage Optimized devices provide 40 vCPUs of compute capacity coupled with 80 terabytes of usable block or Amazon S3-compatible object storage. It is well-suited for local storage and large-scale data transfer. Snowball Edge Compute Optimized devices provide 52 vCPUs, 42 terabytes of usable block or object storage, and an optional GPU for use cases such as advanced machine learning and full motion video analysis in disconnected environments. Customers can use these two options for data collection, machine learning and processing, and storage in environments with intermittent connectivity (such as manufacturing, industrial, and transportation) or in extremely remote locations (such as military or maritime operations) before shipping it back to AWS. These devices may also be rack mounted and clustered together to build larger, temporary installations.
Learn more about Snowball
AWS Snowmobile
AWS Snowmobile moves up to 100 PB of data in a 45-foot long ruggedized shipping container and is ideal for multi-petabyte or Exabyte-scale digital media migrations and data center shutdowns. A Snowmobile arrives at the customer site and appears as a network-attached data store for more secure, high-speed data transfer. After data is transferred to Snowmobile, it is driven back to an AWS Region where the data is loaded into Amazon S3.  Snowmobile is tamper-resistant, waterproof, and temperature controlled with multiple layers of logical and physical security -- including encryption, fire suppression, dedicated security personnel, GPS tracking, alarm monitoring, 24/7 video surveillance, and an escort security vehicle during transit.
Learn more about Snowmobile
Feature comparison
AWS Snowball Edge Storage Optimized
AWS Snowball Edge Compute Optimized
Usage Scenario
Edge computing, Data transfer, Edge storage
Data transfer, Edge storage
Edge computing, Data transfer
Data transfer
Usable HDD Storage
8 TB
80 TB
42 TB
100 PB
Usable SSD Storage
14 TB
1 TB
7.68 TB
No
Usable vCPUs
4 vCPUs
40 vCPUs
52 vCPUs
N/A
Usable Memory
4 GB
80 GB
208 GB
GPU
nVidia V100 (optional)
Onboard Computing Options
AWS IoT Greengrass   Amazon EC2 AMIs
DataSync
Yes
Transfers via NFS
Transfers via S3 API
Network Interfaces
2x 1/10 Gbit - RJ45
2x 10 Gbit – RJ45  1x 25 Gbit – SFP+  1x 100 Gbit – QSFP28
6x 40 Gbit
Device Size
9 inches long, 6 inches wide, and 3 inches tall (227 mm x 148.6 mm x 82.65 mm)
28.3 inches long, 10.6 inches wide, and 15.5 inches tall (548 mm x 320 mm x 501 mm)
Device Weight
4.5 lbs. (2.1 kg)
49.7 lbs. (22.3 kg)
Encryption
Yes, 256-bit
Portability
Battery-based Operation
Wireless
Wi-Fi
Storage Clustering
Yes, 5-10 nodes
HIPAA Compliant
Yes, eligible
Typical Job Lifetime
Offline or Online Data Transfer: Days-Weeks Edge Compute: Weeks-Years
Offline Data Transfer: Days-Weeks
Edge Compute: Weeks-Years
Data Migration: Months
Pricing and availability
Snow Family devices and vehicles are owned and managed by AWS, so customers do not need to invest in new hardware. Customers pay varying startup fees plus shipping per device. Multiple devices can be requested in parallel if more capacity is needed. AWS monitors the health and utilization of Snowcones and Snowballs, and provides replacement devices when needed. For region availability, view the Regional Service Availability page for more information.
Learn more about each member of the AWS Snow Family
Ready to build?
Have more questions?
Contact us