AWS Migration Hub
The one destination for migration and modernization
Get started with AWS Migration Hub
AWS Migration Hub is the one destination for cloud migration and modernization, giving you the tools you need to accelerate and simplify your journey with AWS. Perhaps you’re making the case for cloud within your organization, or creating a data-driven inventory of existing IT assets. Maybe you’re planning, running, and tracking a portfolio of applications migrating to AWS. Or you might be modernizing applications already running on AWS. In all of these cases, Migration Hub can help with your cloud transformation journey.
AWS Migration Hub provides a single place to store IT asset inventory data while tracking migrations to any AWS Region. After migration, use Migration Hub to accelerate the transformation of your applications to native AWS.
Migration Hub is available to all AWS customers at no additional charge. You pay only for the cost of the migration tools you use, if any, and any resources being consumed on AWS. When using Refactor Spaces, you pay only for what you use plus other AWS resources Migration Hub orchestrates with costs associated.
Track application migrations for free
with the AWS Free Tier
Get started for free
Benefits
Centralized tracking
Migrations involve many components that need to be tracked such as the status of servers or databases being migrated, and these are typically tracked across different tools. AWS Migration Hub helps address this by providing a central location to track the status of all these components, making it easier to view overall migration progress and reducing the time spent determining current status and next steps.
Migration flexibility
AWS Migration Hub provides the flexibility to use the migration tools that work best for your organization. Whether you use AWS Application Migration Service, AWS Database Migration Service, or partner tools such as ATADATA, Migration Hub makes it easy for you to track migrations across multiple migration tools.
Discovery, assessment, and planning
AWS Migration Hub assists in all phases of migration and modernization readiness. It simplifies the discovery of existing applications and infrastructure and their dependencies, assessment of an application’s ability to be migrated and modernized, and recommendations for modernization strategies.
Fast-track application refactor
AWS Migration Hub helps you fast-track refactoring applications, simplify development and operations, and manage existing apps and microservices as a single application. Migration Hub eliminates the undifferentiated work of building and operating AWS infrastructure for incremental refactoring. It reduces the business risk of evolving applications into microservices or extending existing applications that can’t be modified with new features written in microservices.
How it works
Close
Click to enlarge
Featured customers that use Migration Hub
Supported services and tools
AWS Database Migration Service
AWS Application Migration Service
ATADATA ATAmotion
Check out the product features
Visit the AWS Migration Hub features page to learn more about key features.
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start migrating today
Get started migrating with AWS Migration Hub on the AWS Management Console.
Sign in