Amazon Route 53
A reliable and cost-effective way to route end users to Internet applications
Get started with Amazon Route 53
Amazon Route 53 is a highly available and scalable cloud Domain Name System (DNS) web service. It is designed to give developers and businesses an extremely reliable and cost effective way to route end users to Internet applications by translating names like www.example.com into the numeric IP addresses like 192.0.2.1 that computers use to connect to each other. Amazon Route 53 is fully compliant with IPv6 as well.
Amazon Route 53 effectively connects user requests to infrastructure running in AWS – such as Amazon EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancing load balancers, or Amazon S3 buckets – and can also be used to route users to infrastructure outside of AWS. You can use Amazon Route 53 to configure DNS health checks to route traffic to healthy endpoints or to independently monitor the health of your application and its endpoints. Amazon Route 53 Traffic Flow makes it easy for you to manage traffic globally through a variety of routing types, including Latency Based Routing, Geo DNS, Geoproximity, and Weighted Round Robin—all of which can be combined with DNS Failover in order to enable a variety of low-latency, fault-tolerant architectures. Using Amazon Route 53 Traffic Flow’s simple visual editor, you can easily manage how your end-users are routed to your application’s endpoints—whether in a single AWS region or distributed around the globe. Amazon Route 53 also offers Domain Name Registration – you can purchase and manage domain names such as example.com and Amazon Route 53 will automatically configure DNS settings for your domains.
Amazon Route 53 (1:36)
Benefits
Highly available and reliable
Amazon Route 53 is built using AWS’s highly available and reliable infrastructure. The distributed nature of our DNS servers helps ensure a consistent ability to route your end users to your application. Features such as Amazon Route 53 Traffic Flow help you improve reliability with easy configuration of failover to re-route your users to an alternate location if your primary application endpoint becomes unavailable. Amazon Route 53 is designed to provide the level of dependability required by important applications. Amazon Route 53 is backed by the Amazon Route 53 Service Level Agreement.
Flexible
Amazon Route 53 Traffic Flow routes traffic based on multiple criteria, such as endpoint health, geographic location, and latency. You can configure multiple traffic policies and decide which policies are active at any given time. You can create and edit traffic policies using the simple visual editor in the Route 53 console, AWS SDKs, or the Route 53 API. Traffic Flow’s versioning feature maintains a history of changes to your traffic policies, so you can easily roll back to a previous version using the console or API.
Designed for use with other Amazon Web Services
Amazon Route 53 is designed to work well with other AWS features and offerings. You can use Amazon Route 53 to map domain names to your Amazon EC2 instances, Amazon S3 buckets, Amazon CloudFront distributions, and other AWS resources. By using the AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) service with Amazon Route 53, you get fine grained control over who can update your DNS data. You can use Amazon Route 53 to map your zone apex (example.com versus www.example.com) to your Elastic Load Balancing instance, Amazon CloudFront distribution, AWS Elastic Beanstalk environment, API Gateway, VPC endpoint, or Amazon S3 website bucket using a feature called Alias record.
Simple
With self-service sign-up, Amazon Route 53 can start to answer your DNS queries within minutes. You can configure your DNS settings with the AWS Management Console or our easy-to-use API. You can also programmatically integrate the Amazon Route 53 API into your overall web application. For instance, you can use Amazon Route 53’s API to create a new DNS record whenever you create a new EC2 instance. Amazon Route 53 Traffic Flow makes it easy to set up sophisticated routing logic for your applications by using the simple visual policy editor.
Fast
Using a global anycast network of DNS servers around the world, Amazon Route 53 is designed to automatically route your users to the optimal location depending on network conditions. As a result, the service offers low query latency for your end users, as well as low update latency for your DNS record management needs. Amazon Route 53 Traffic Flow lets you further improve your customers’ experience by running your application in multiple locations around the world and using traffic policies to ensure your end users are routed to the closest healthy endpoint for your application.
Cost-effective
Amazon Route 53 passes on the benefits of AWS’s scale to you.  You pay only for the resources you use, such as the number of queries that the service answers for each of your domains, hosted zones for managing domains through the service, and optional features such as traffic policies and health checks, all at a low cost and without minimum usage commitments or any up-front fees.
Secure
By integrating Amazon Route 53 with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM), you can grant unique credentials and manage permissions for every user within your AWS account and specify who has access to which parts of the Amazon Route 53 service.
Scalable
Route 53 is designed to automatically scale to handle very large query volumes without any intervention from you.
Simplify the hybrid cloud
Amazon Route 53 Resolver provides recursive DNS for your Amazon VPC and on-premises networks over AWS Direct Connect or AWS Managed VPN.
Get started with AWS
Sign up for an AWS account
Instantly get access to the
AWS Free Tier.
Learn with 10-minute Tutorials
Explore and learn with
simple tutorials.
Start building with AWS
Begin building with step-by-step guides to help you launch your
AWS project.
Blog posts and articles
Centralized DNS management of hybrid cloud with Amazon Route 53 and AWS Transit Gateway
by Bhavin Desai
May 3, 2019
Learn more »
Check out the product features
Discover what Amazon Route 53 does to route end users to your applications
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started with Amazon Route 53 in the AWS Console.
Sign in