VMware Cloud on AWS
Innovate faster, rapidly transition to the cloud, and work securely from any location with the full range of 200+ AWS services
AWS is VMware's preferred public cloud partner for all vSphere-based workloads. The VMware and AWS partnership delivers a faster, easier, and cost-effective path to the hybrid cloud while allowing customers to modernize applications enabling faster time-to-market and increased innovation. Use your current skills, processes, and governance to deliver secure virtual apps and desktops with our Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) solutions to enable employees to work securely from any location. New Amazon EC2 i3en.metal instances for VMware Cloud™ on AWS, powered by Intel® Xeon® Scalable processors, deliver high networking throughput and lower latency so you can migrate data centers to the cloud for rapid data center evacuation, disaster recovery, and application modernization.
With over 4 years of joint engineering, VMware and AWS provide organizations with enhanced VMware functionalities integrated in the solution and a single point of contact for support and service integration. This is why VMware Cloud on AWS is our preferred service for all vSphere workloads.
Now available, Amazon EC2 i3en.metal Instances for VMware Cloud™ on AWS, powered by Intel® Xeon® Scalable processors, deliver high networking throughput and lower latency. You can read more here <link will be live on July 15: https://cloud.vmware.com/community/2020/07/15/2-host-i3en-instance > and view the recent interview by theCUBE <live on July 15: https://youtu.be/NPM9yTmjrh4> to learn how these instances optimize data-intensive workloads requiring high random I/O access such as relational databases and workloads that require end to end security.
Contact Us
Live and On-Demand Webinars
AWS and IDC Panel: Achieve Faster Migration, IT Efficiency, and Positive ROI with VMware Cloud™ on AWS
February 17, 2021, 10 am PST
Register »
Deliver Uptime All the Time: Ensure Business Continuity with VMware Cloud™ on AWS
View On-Demand »
Take the Next Step in Your VMware Cloud™ on AWS Journey: Modernize Applications
View On-Demand »
How to Exit Your Datacenter and Modernize VMware Workloads on AWS
View On-Demand »
Modernize On-Premises Databases with Amazon RDS on VMware
View On-Demand »
Innovate and Modernize on Your Terms: Deploy Oracle Workloads on VMware Cloud on AWS
View On-Demand »
Modernize Your SQL Server Environment with VMware Cloud on AWS
View On-Demand »
Automate Desktop Management and Streamline Access
View On-Demand »
The Power of VMware and AWS
VMware Cloud on AWS brings VMware’s enterprise-class Software-Defined Data Center software to the AWS Cloud, and enables customers to run production applications across VMware vSphere®-based private, public, and hybrid cloud environments, with optimized access to AWS services.
VMware Cloud on AWS was awarded CRN's 2020 Products of The Year for Hybrid Cloud - Customer Demand sub category.
View Brief »
Benefits
Customer benefits were reported in the 2021 IDC Report, The Business Value of VMware Cloud on AWS for Supporting Business-Critical Applications. Learn more about the business value of VMware Cloud on AWS.
46%
faster migration
43%
reduction in total cost of operation
479%
5 year ROI
$9.6M
total new revenue gained per year
Increased innovation
VMware workloads running on AWS have access to a broad and rich set of over 200+ AWS services including compute, database, analytics, IoT, AI/ML, security, and more. Latency-sensitive applications hosted in VMware can directly access databases on Aurora, Dynamo, or Redshift for petabyte-scale data analysis, as well as direct and secure access to low-cost S3 buckets, objects, and API functions.
Simplified operations
Organizations can simplify their Hybrid IT operations by using the same VMware Cloud Foundation technologies including vSphere, vSAN, NSX, and vCenter Server across both their on-premises data center environments and the AWS Cloud. You can keep the same VMware provisioning, storage, and lifecycle policies you use today. This means you can easily move applications between their on-premises environments and AWS without having to purchase any new hardware, rewrite applications, or modify your operations.
Reduced costs
VMware Cloud on AWS enables organizations to optimize the costs of operating a consistent and seamless hybrid IT environment. There is no custom hardware to deploy in your on-premises environment nor need to modify applications to shift to a hybrid cloud model. You can use VMware’s management and policy tools across on-premises and VMware Cloud on AWS, so you have a unified and operationally consistent experience. These capabilities let you leverage all your existing investments to help save money.
Enhanced availability
VMware Cloud on AWS helps accelerate migration of VMware vSphere-based workloads to the highly available and scalable AWS Cloud. The service enables VMware-based workloads to run directly on the next-generation Nitro system-based Amazon EC2 bare metal infrastructure and provisioned in a single-tenant, isolated Amazon VPC. This approach allows organizations to take immediate advantage of the scalability, availability, security, and global reach of the AWS Cloud.
From Our Customers
William Hill streamlines operations and reduces costs using VMware Cloud on AWS
Facing the challenge of continuously increasing customer demand and the desire to get new products to market faster motivated William Hill, one of the largest gaming companies, to migrate their on-premises data centers to the cloud. VMware Cloud on AWS has enabled William Hill to close portions of their seemingly ever-expanding, on-premises data centers, as well as develop a new mindset and cost-effective approach to conducting and growing the business.
View the case study »
PennyMac scales VDI environment with VMware Cloud™ on AWS
PennyMac, a top national mortgage lender, is committed to providing each and every customer with the right home loan and superior service long after closing. In this video, learn how PennyMac used VMware Cloud™ on AWS to migrate their VDI environment to AWS.
Watch video »
S&P Global Ratings Uses AWS to Speed Application Migration, Drive Innovation
The world’s leading provider of independent credit ratings, S&P Global Ratings has helped people across the globe make better financial decisions for more than 150 years. Learn more about how S&P Global Ratings used VMware Cloud on AWS to migrate their on-premises environments to AWS.
Watch video »
View the case study »
VMware Cloud on AWS Helps New Jersey School District Ensure Continuity and Seamless Virtual Education
VMware, an AWS Public Sector Partner, helps West Windsor-Plainsboro Regional School District deliver uninterrupted virtual education to its 10,000 students, save 50–75 percent on hardware replacement costs, and recover data in 10 minutes. The district deployed VMware Cloud on AWS to provide seamless access to critical learning applications for students and teachers.
Watch video »
View the case study »
ZOZO Technologies uses VMware Cloud on AWS to process 3x as much traffic as usual in winter sale
ZOZO Technologies is the platform developer of ZOZOTOWN, the largest online fashion store in Japan. With the infrastructure supporting ZOZOTOWN built around an on-premises environment, coping with the winter sale, which generates the highest amount of traffic each year, was a challenge. The company therefore expanded its existing environment with VMware Cloud on AWS, which has excellent compatibility with conventional infrastructure, and moved to a pay-as-you-go system. Adding around 100 bare metal instances for the 2019 winter sale enabled the system to process three times the amount of traffic as usual, providing efficient infrastructure and preventing lost sales.
View the Customer Case Study »
ZENRIN Datacom
ZENRIN Datacom migrated 1,800 virtual servers in on-premises VMware vSphere environment to VMware Cloud™ on AWS, in addition to the 2,400 virtual servers already deployed on AWS, for a complete cloud-based platform adoption in 2020.
View the case study »
OSRAM Continental Chose VMware Cloud on AWS for High Availability, Speed, and Flexibility
OSRAM Continental develops innovative automotive lighting systems to meet the needs of modern mobility concepts. Launched in 2018, the joint venture very quickly set up an entirely new, ready-to-run IT infrastructure based on VMware Cloud on AWS. Thanks to a virtual desktop infrastructure, the company benefits from time and cost savings, maximum flexibility, and centralized management, thus creating the infrastructural prerequisites to meet the requirements of an industry in transition.
View the case study »
888 Holdings Embraces Hybrid Approach as it Pursues Global Growth Using VMware Cloud™ on AWS
888 Holdings has been at the forefront of the online gaming industry since its foundation. It operates in a market with little brand loyalty and wants to enhance the end-user experience. It also wants to leverage big data to stay competitive. VMware Cloud on AWS creates a secure, resilient environment with the scale and flexibility needed to support growth. The result is a new hybrid cloud ready data center that delivers operational cost savings, strengthens disaster recovery (DR) and creates a platform for service innovation.
View the case study »
Use Cases
Accelerate cloud migration
By sharing the common VMware Cloud Foundation-based cloud infrastructure across both on-premises data centers and the AWS Cloud, organizations can simplify and accelerate the migration of mission-critical production workloads to the AWS Cloud at scale without having to convert or re-architect workloads. VMware Cloud on AWS enables seamless bi-directional application migration with consistent policies by using vSphere vMotion between your on-premises data center and the AWS Cloud.
Deliver disaster recovery as a service
VMware Cloud on AWS enables organizations to simplify, accelerate, and modernize their existing disaster recovery solutions by enhancing existing VMware-based DR solutions with AWS Cloud-based disaster recovery as a service (DRaaS) capabilities. By combining the trusted and proven VMware DR technologies such as VMware Site Recovery Manager (SRM) and vSphere Replication with the massive scalability, availability, speed, and cost benefits of the AWS Cloud, organizations can realize the benefits of cost reduction, operational simplification, and faster time to protection for disaster recovery and DR testing.
Extend your data center
With VMware Cloud on AWS, organizations can leverage the massive scalability and global presence of the AWS Cloud to rapidly, seamlessly, and cost-effectively meet their data center capacity and regional footprint expansion needs. By having a consistent cloud infrastructure platform based on enterprise-scale VMware Cloud Foundation, next-generation Amazon EC2 bare metal infrastructure, and the highly secure and performant AWS Direct Connect private network connectivity, organizations can easily and confidently extend their on-premises data center workloads with the massive capacity of the AWS Cloud to meet any expansion and growth needs of the business.
Modernize your applications
Increase value of enterprise applications by leveraging AWS services for integrated application modernization like Amazon S3. Ideal for customers who are looking to build new/next-gen applications or implement a strategy to design hybrid applications.
Learn More about VMware Cloud on AWS
Learn more
Ready to get started?
Sign up
Have more questions?
Contact us