General
Q: What is AWS Fargate?
AWS Fargate is a serverless compute engine for containers that works with both Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS). AWS Fargate makes it easy to focus on building your applications. Fargate eliminates the need to provision and manage servers, lets you specify and pay for resources per application, and improves security through application isolation by design.
Show less
Q: Why should I use AWS Fargate?
AWS Fargate enables you to focus on your applications. You define your application content, networking, storage, and scaling requirements. There is no provisioning, patching, cluster capacity management, or infrastructure management required.
Q: What use cases does AWS Fargate support?
AWS Fargate supports all of the common container use cases including microservices architecture applications, batch processing, machine learning applications, and migrating on-premises applications to the cloud.
Q: What is the pricing of AWS Fargate?
With AWS Fargate, you pay only for the amount of vCPU, memory, and storage resources consumed by your containerized applications.
vCPU and memory resources are calculated from the time your container images are pulled until the Amazon ECS task or EKS pod terminates, rounded up to the nearest second. A minimum charge of 1 minute applies. 20 GB of ephemeral storage is available for all Fargate Tasks and Pods by default—you only pay for any additional storage that you configure.
Fargate supports Spot and Compute Savings Plan pricing options just like with Amazon EC2 instances. You can find additional details on the pricing page.
Q: How does AWS Fargate work with Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS?
Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) is a highly scalable, high performance container management service that supports Docker containers and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) is a fully managed Kubernetes service. Both ECS and EKS use containers provisioned by Fargate to automatically scale, load balance, and optimize container availability through managed scheduling, providing an easier way to build and operate containerized applications.
Q: How should I choose when to use AWS Fargate?
Choose AWS Fargate for its isolation model and security. You should also select Fargate if you want to launch containers without having to provision or manage EC2 instances. If you require greater control of your EC2 instances or broader customization options, then use ECS or EKS without Fargate. Use EC2 for GPU workloads, which are not supported on Fargate today.
Q: Can I run my Arm-based applications on AWS Fargate?
Yes. AWS Fargate allows you to run your Arm-based applications by using Arm-compatible container images or multi-architecture container images in Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR). You can simply specify the CPU Architecture as ARM64 in your Amazon ECS Task Definition to target AWS Fargate powered by Arm-based AWS Graviton2 Processors.
Q: Why should I use AWS Fargate powered by Graviton2 processors?
AWS Graviton2 processors are custom built by Amazon Web Services using 64-bit Arm Neoverse cores to deliver the best price performance for your cloud workloads. AWS Fargate powered by AWS Graviton2 processors delivers up to 40% improved price/performance at 20% lower cost over comparable Intel x86-based Fargate for a variety of workloads such as application servers, web services, high-performance computing, and media processing. You get the same serverless benefits of AWS Fargate while optimizing performance and cost for running your containerized workloads.
Q: Can I run my Amazon ECS Windows containers on AWS Fargate?
Yes. AWS Fargate offers a serverless approach for running your Windows containers. It removes the need to provision and manage servers and lets you specify and pay for resources per application. Fargate provides task-level isolation and handles the necessary patching and updating to help provide a secure compute environment.
Q: Can I use my existing Microsoft Windows License with AWS Fargate?
Can I use my existing Microsoft Windows License with AWS Fargate?
Since Fargate is a serverless compute engine, customers do not need to manage the underlying compute instances running in Fargate. Therefore, Fargate will manage the Windows OS licenses for you and the cost of doing so is built into the Fargate pricing.
Q: Which Windows Server versions are supported with with AWS Fargate?
Fargate supports Windows Server 2019 Long-Term Servicing Channel (LTSC) release on Fargate Windows Platform Version 1.0.0 or later.
Security and Compliance
Q: To which compliance programs does AWS Fargate conform?
Q: With which compliance programs does AWS Fargate conform?
AWS Fargate meets the standards for PCI DSS Level 1, ISO 9001, ISO 27001, ISO 27017, ISO 27018, SOC 1, SOC 2, SOC 3, and HIPAA eligibility.
For more information, visit our compliance pages.
Q: Can I use AWS Fargate for Protected Health Information (PHI) and other HIPAA-regulated workloads?
Q: Can I use AWS Fargate for Protected Health Information (PHI) and other HIPAA regulated workloads?
Yes. AWS Fargate is HIPAA-eligible. If you have an executed Business Associate Addendum (BAA) with AWS, you can process encrypted Protected Health Information (PHI) using Docker containers deployed onto Fargate.
For more information, please visit our page on HIPAA compliance. If you plan to process, store, or transmit PHI and do not have an executed BAA from AWS, please contact us for more information.
Q: Can I use AWS Fargate for US Government-regulated workloads or for processing sensitive Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)?
Q: Can I use AWS Fargate for US Government-regulated workloads or processing sensitive Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI)?
Yes. Fargate is available in AWS GovCloud (US) Regions. AWS GovCloud (US) is Amazon's isolated cloud infrastructure and services designed to address specific regulatory and compliance requirements of US Government agencies, as well as contractors, educational institutions, and other US customers that run sensitive workloads in the cloud. For a full list of AWS Regions where Fargate is available, please visit our Region table.
For more information, visit our page on AWS GovCloud.
Service Level Agreement (SLA)
Q: What does the AWS Fargate SLA guarantee?
Our Compute SLA guarantees a Monthly Uptime Percentage of at least 99.99% for AWS Fargate.
Q: How do I know if I qualify for a SLA Service Credit?
Q: How do I know if I qualify for an SLA Service Credit?
You are eligible for an AWS Fargate SLA credit under the Compute SLA if more than one Availability Zone in which you are running a task, within the same region, has a Monthly Uptime Percentage of less than 99.99% during any monthly billing cycle.
For full details on all of the terms and conditions of the SLA, as well as details on how to submit a claim, please see the Compute SLA details page.
Get started using AWS Fargate
Visit the Amazon ECS console
Ready to get started?
Sign up
Have more questions?
Contact us
FAQs
Security & Compliance
Service Level Agreement