AWS Serverless Application Repository
Discover, deploy, and publish serverless applications
Browse all applications
The AWS Serverless Application Repository is a managed repository for serverless applications. It enables teams, organizations, and individual developers to store and share reusable applications, and easily assemble and deploy serverless architectures in powerful new ways. Using the Serverless Application Repository, you don't need to clone, build, package, or publish source code to AWS before deploying it. Instead, you can use pre-built applications from the Serverless Application Repository in your serverless architectures, helping you and your teams reduce duplicated work, ensure organizational best practices, and get to market faster. Integration with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) provides resource-level control of each application, enabling you to publicly share applications with everyone or privately share them with specific AWS accounts. To share an application you've built, publish it to the AWS Serverless Application Repository.
Each application is packaged with an AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM) template that defines the AWS resources used. Publicly shared applications also include a link to the application’s source code. There is no additional charge to use the Serverless Application Repository - you only pay for the AWS resources used in the applications you deploy.
How it works: Deploying applications
BENEFITS
Develop More Powerful Apps
Quickly assemble serverless architectures in powerful new ways. Discover and share reusable serverless application patterns, privately or publicly, and compose new serverless architectures using the simplified syntax of AWS SAM.
Easily Manage Applications
Use pre-built applications in your serverless deployments, eliminating the need to clone, build, package, and publish source code to AWS before deploying it. It also supports SAM and semantic versioning to enable simple application management.
Reuse, Don't Rebuild
Develop and publish serverless applications once, store them in the Serverless Application Repository, and use them privately across teams or with the greater community to reduce duplicated efforts and accelerate development workflows.
Ensure Best Practices
Find and distribute serverless applications for common use cases. Build organizational best practices into your serverless architectures to help ensure consistency across teams—use permissions to share applications with specific AWS accounts.
Featured Apps: Alexa Skills, IoT, Machine Learning
Alexa Anagram
Ask Alexa to list anagrams for a word. It will respond with the count and anagrams for the requested word
Published by: evanchiu
Alexa Salesforce Notes - Sample
Demonstrates how to build a private Alexa skill to access Salesforce data
Published by: Alexa for Business
Rekognition - SQS
Trigger a Lambda function to perform image analysis using SQS as an event source
Published by: Kashif Imran & Ganesh Shankaran
IoT Twilio Bridge
A bridge between AWS IoT and Twilio for your devices to send messages to Twilio
Published by: TensorIoT
Ready to publish your own serverless applications?
Connect with developers and customers everywhere by publishing your serverless applications. Learn more
Featured Apps: Data Transformation and Media Processing
Image Moderation Chatbot
Automatically remove messages containing inappropriate images from channels of popular chat apps
Published by: robperc
Document Generator
Create and modify documents, PDFs, and books
Published by: ryfeus
NYC Parks Events Crawler
Crawl the NYC Parks' Events site, generate a scoped view of its data, and store it in a DynamoDB table
Published by: Chris Munns
Retweet Leaderboard
Process events from a Twitter event source app to update a leaderboard in real time
Published by: jlhood
Featured Apps: Logging, Monitoring, and Security
Feed Logger
Automatically log the body of a web result at a set frequency
Published by: Ranek Kiil
API Save Lambda DynamoDB
A Lambda function with API Gateway integration that saves request data to a DynamoDB table. Written in CORS
Published by: Aleksandar Simovic
FunctionShield - Protected Function
Enforce strict security controls on your Lambda function runtime
Published by: PureSec
Application Cost Monitoring
Provides granular AWS spend tracking
Published by: ServerlessOps
Featured Apps: Notification, Authentication, and Location
Contact Us Form
Use API Gateway, Lambda, and SNS to create a Serverless "Contact Us" form for a static website
Published by: Randy Findley
Billing Reports
Deliver the latest AWS costs breakdown to your Slack channel
Published by: Octo Technology Australia
Serverless Cognito
Authenticate your users through Cognito, Lambda, and API Gateway
Published by: Marek Kuczynski
Toll Cost
Calculate tolls for international driving routes
Published by: HERE Technologies
Featured Publishers
Just getting started with serverless applications?
Serverless applications don't require you to provision, scale, or manage any servers. You can build them for virtually any type of application or backend service, and everything required to run and scale your application with high availability is handled for you. Learn more
Apps to Get Started: Say Hello, World
Hello, World - Python 3
A starter AWS Lambda function
Published by: AWS
Greengrass Hello World - Node.js
Deploy this Lambda function to a Greengrass core where it will send a hello world message to a topic
Simple Mobile Backend
A simple mobile backend (read/write to DynamoDB)
Lambda Test Harness
Provides a simple framework for conducting various tests of your Lambda functions
Want to see your applications in the AWS Serverless Application Repository?
Learn how to publish an app
Have more questions?
Contact us