Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility)
Enterprise-ready document database service that scales JSON workloads with ease
Get started with Amazon DocumentDB
Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility) is a database service that is purpose-built for JSON data management at scale, fully managed and integrated with AWS, and enterprise-ready with high durability.
Amazon DocumentDB is designed from the ground-up to give you the scalability and durability you need when operating mission-critical MongoDB workloads. In Amazon DocumentDB, storage scales automatically up to 64TiB without any impact to your application. It supports millions of requests per second with up to 15 low latency read replicas in minutes, without any application downtime, regardless of the size of your data.
Amazon DocumentDB is designed for 99.99% availability and replicates six copies of your data across three AWS Availability Zones (AZs). You can use AWS Database Migration Service (DMS) for free (for six months) to easily migrate your self-managed MongoDB databases to Amazon DocumentDB with virtually no downtime.
Introduction to Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility)
Benefits
Scales with ease
Amazon DocumentDB is engineered with scalable workloads in mind, and allows compute and storage to scale independently. You can easily scale read capacity to millions of requests per second by adding up to 15 low latency read replicas across three Availability Zones (AZs) in minutes, regardless of data size. Amazon DocumentDB scales to 64TiB automatically.
"Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility)'s support for a flexible document model and a fully managed service has relieved us from handling rigid schema and enabled us to operate mission-critical workloads at scale with ease.” Dr. Wooseung Jang, VP - Samsung Electronics
Fully managed by AWS
With Amazon DocumentDB, you don’t need to worry about database management tasks, such as hardware provisioning, patching, setup, configuration, backups, or scaling. Amazon DocumentDB automatically and continuously monitors and backs up your cloud database to Amazon S3, enabling point-in-time recovery (up to the second for the last 35 days). Amazon DocumentDB Global Clusters automatically replicates data across up to 5 AWS regions with sub-second latencies to provide disaster recovery in the unusual event of a region-wide outage.
“Woot! replaced our aging, self-managed, and operational nightmare product catalog database running on MongoDB 2.2 with Amazon DocumentDB. In doing so, we cut our infrastructure costs for the database by 82%.” Sam Giagtzoglou, Software Development Engineer – Woot!
Read the blog
Durable, available, and secure
Amazon DocumentDB is highly durable and ready for enterprise applications, with data automatically replicated 6 ways across 3 AZs. It automatically and continuously backs up to Amazon S3, designed for 99.999999999% durability, enabling point-in-time recovery. Amazon DocumentDB provides strict network isolation with Amazon VPC and offers comprehensive compliance readiness, with data encrypted at rest and in transit.
“We migrated to Amazon DocumentDB to get the benefits of a fully managed service where we can store and query our data in a simple and reliable way. Further, because high availability, durability, and backup are enabled by default, those are tasks that we no longer need to worry about, and that frees up developers to work on new capabilities.” Alfonso Afonso, Software Engineering Lead - BBC
MongoDB-compatible
Amazon DocumentDB implements the Apache 2.0 open source MongoDB 3.6 and 4.0 APIs by emulating the responses that a MongoDB client expects from a MongoDB server, allowing you to use your existing MongoDB drivers and tools with Amazon DocumentDB. Updating the application is as easy as changing the database endpoint to the new Amazon DocumentDB cluster.
“While MongoDB gave us scale and a rich query language, managing the databases directly meant that we had less time to innovate for our customers. DocumentDB gave us an opportunity to benefit from the features we were already familiar with while reducing the amount of time we spent on database administration.” Sergey Podlazov, Director of Engineering - Zulily
Read the case study
Use cases
Content and catalog management
Shopping sites, online publications, digital archives, point-of-sale terminals, and self-service kiosks rely on content and catalog management systems to serve their customers. These systems need fast and reliable access to user reviews, images, ratings, product information, comments, etc. With Amazon DocumentDB’s flexible document model, data types, and indexing, you can store and query content (e.g., user reviews and demo videos for shopping sites) and catalogs (e.g., inventory lists for point-of-sale terminals and financial trades for trading platforms) quickly and intuitively using a simple database service.
Profile management
User profile management enables online transactions, user preferences, and user authentication. With the growth in users, increasingly complex user profile data, and growing user experience expectations, the demand for scalability, data flexibility, and performance too has grown. With Amazon DocumentDB’s document data model, you can manage profiles & preferences of millions of users. Easily scale to process millions of user requests per second, with millisecond latency, with a fully-managed non-relational database service.
Mobile and web applications
Build high-performance mobile and web applications that scale to process millions of user requests per second with millisecond latency. As a website database or database for mobile applications, Amazon DocumentDB lowers your operational burden, allowing you to focus on building unique experiences for your customers. Amazon DocumentDB’s flexible document model, data types, and indexing allow you to adapt and iterate on your applications quickly, cutting down development time.
How it works
Migrate your self-managed MongoDB workloads to Amazon DocumentDB
Self-managing MongoDB databases is difficult, time-consuming, and expensive. With Amazon DocumentDB, you can set up, secure, and scale MongoDB-compatible databases in the cloud without worrying about manually setting up and securing database clusters, running cluster management software, configuring backups, and monitoring production workloads.
To learn how, see the Amazon DocumentDB Migration Guide
Store, query, and index JSON data
As a document database, a type of NoSQL database, Amazon DocumentDB makes it easy to insert, query, index, and perform aggregations over JSON data. JSON is a de facto format for data exchange, a common output of modern APIs, and modeling application data as JSON is intuitive for developers. Being able to store and query JSON data in its natural format, and without translation, enables developers to iterate faster and be more productive.
To learn more about JSON, read the Amazon DocumentDB documentation
Featured customers
“Dow Jones uses a number of specialized databases including MongoDB to provide a variety of services for our customers. We are excited about collaborating with AWS around Amazon DocumentDB, which meets key needs we expressed to AWS in order to simplify our operations and free up our developers to invest in innovative experiences for our customers rather than undifferentiated operations."
Ramin Beheshti, Chief Product & Technology Officer - Dow Jones
Learn more
“We chose Amazon DocumentDB because it natively stores data in JSON, making it simpler to query and index regulatory documents. This reduces our development cycles, while extending the usability of our data by easily integrating with other systems that leverage JSON.”
Ranga Rajagopal, Senior Director, Enterprise Data Platforms - FINRA
Watch the video
“We have 2,000 different databases in production, with DocumentDB being the second most prominent. We had to make small adjustments to transition from MongoDB to Amazon DocumentDB, but after we did, we found that with a lot less code, we could accomplish the same tasks with a lot more stability. Now, engineers have maybe 5 percent of the problems they had before, and if they have problems, it’s a problem with the logic or on the application side, not because Amazon DocumentDB is doing something wrong.”
Marcelo Soto, Head of Data Platform - Rappi
"Our developers love the document model as it enables them to move fast and iterate quickly when building applications. Amazon DocumentDB integrates deeply with AWS services and has the potential to provide us with a robust, highly scalable, and cost effective database service. With Amazon DocumentDB, our developers will be able to move faster and focus more on innovating on behalf of our customers versus managing a database."
Sunjay Pandey, Vice President - Capital One
“From automated backup to multi-AZ failover, Amazon DocumentDB provides all the key features we need to build the world class systems that power both our Arc Publishing business and our machine learning platform.”
Patrick Cullen, Director of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence - The Washington Post
“On day one, we were able to scale far beyond what we were capable of doing with MongoDB. We've gotten great customer service from the DocumentDB service team. From my point of view regarding infrastructure, infrastructure management, and operations, I'd say it's a win. We've absolutely come out on top.”
Brad Fino, Director of DevOps - Plume
"For our use case, we have complex documents that require nested indexes, ad hoc queries, and aggregations. While we could have chosen any database, we chose Amazon DocumentDB as the document model was a perfect match. Having a fully managed document database was a major game changer for our team. We did not need to invest deeply in additional operational resource or have to fit our use case into a different data model. In choosing Amazon DocumentDB, we have empowered our entire development team to become more agile and productive."
Jason Neal, Software Development - Amazon.com
"The application delivery platform built using AWS has been operating stably since its release, supporting a news delivery service that requires 24x7 reliability. In particular, by utilizing Amazon DocumentDB, we have been able to reduce operating costs while allowing flexibility in article category searches. Amazon DocumentDB has high read browsing performance and maintains high performance that can withstand millions of requests."
Tatsuki Okamoto, Customer Experience Department, Digital Innovation Headquarters - Asahi Shimbun
“We tested the scalability and performance of Amazon DocumentDB with a two-fold increase in the load of data we usually work with, and the results were impressive. There were no delays or downtime in performance, allowing multiple concurrent campaigns to run smoothly. As an AWS Enterprise Support customer, we also had 24x7 technical support in finetuning the performance of our platform with Amazon DocumentDB. Thanks to AWS, we were able to achieve high scalability and 20 percent cost-savings.”
Bhanu Mohanty, Chief Architect - Punchh
See more Amazon DocumentDB case studies
Sign up for an AWS account
Instantly get access to the Amazon DocumentDB Management Console.
Sign up
Check out a tutorial
Explore Amazon DocumentDB with a simple tutorial.
Start building with AWS
Learn how to build with Amazon DocumentDB.