AWS Health Dashboard
View important events and changes affecting your AWS environment
View your AWS Health Dashboard
Read the getting started user guide
The AWS Health Dashboard is the single place to learn about the availability and operations of AWS services. You can view the overall status of AWS services, and you can sign in to view personalized communications about your particular AWS account or organization. Your account view provides deeper visibility into resource issues, upcoming changes, and important notifications.
Benefits
Personalized view of service health
When you sign in to the AWS Health Dashboard, you have a personalized view of the AWS service status that powers your application. Use the AWS Health Dashboard to learn about specific operational issues that affect your account. For example, if you receive an event for a lost Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) volume associated with one of your Amazon EC2 instances, you can quickly view how your resources are impacted, helping you to troubleshoot and remediate.
Proactive notifications
In addition to enabling emails to receive important Health events, you can configure AWS Health Aware to receive information in your Slack channel or operational tooling. For example, if a maintenance event is scheduled for one of your Amazon EC2 instances, you can receive an alert with information in your preferred communication channel so you can actively address any issues for the upcoming change.
Detailed troubleshooting guidance
When you get a Health event, it includes remediation details and specific guidance so that you can take action for events that affect your resources. For example, if a hardware issue affects one of your Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) volumes, the alert includes a list of affected resources, and recommendations and help links to restore your volume from a snapshot. This helps you reduce the amount of time to resolve issues.
Integration and automation
You can use Amazon EventBridge to build custom rules and select targets, such as AWS Lambda functions, to define automated remediation actions for specific events. You can use the AWS Health API, the service that powers AWS Health Dashboard, to integrate health data and notifications with your existing in-house or third-party IT management tools. The AWS Health API is part of an AWS Business Support or AWS Enterprise Support plan.
Fine-grained access control by using IAM
The AWS Health Dashboard supports access control so you can set up permissions based on event metadata. This enables you to grant or deny access to an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user based on attributes, such as event types, specific services, or other role-based attributes. You can restrict access of sensitive events, such as security events, to only the users that need to see them.
Aggregate health events across AWS Organizations
If you use AWS Organizations, you can use AWS Health to aggregate notifications from all accounts in your organization. This provides you a centralized and real-time view for all AWS Health events posted to individual accounts in your organization, including operational issues, scheduled maintenance, and account notifications.
Partners
"More and more enterprises depend on AWS to drive their digital business, and all businesses are digital now. AWS has invested in new technology and services to keep customers aware of the real-time status of the relevant parts of the AWS ecosystem. With PagerDuty's integration with AWS Health, alerts and remediation guidance are immediately actionable, allowing companies to automate incident response and proactively get ahead of any potential customer disruptions."
Rachel Obstler, VP of Product Management - Pagerduty
"We are excited to integrate data from the AWS Health Dashboard into our Splunk App for AWS. Our customers love the end-to-end visibility Splunk solutions provide, and the addition of Health Dashboard notifications amplifies the value of managing their AWS resources with the Splunk App for AWS."
Dave Schwartz, AVP Global Strategic Alliances - Splunk
"Datadog works to provide AWS users with insight into their cloud infrastructure and applications. By integrating with the AWS Health Dashboard and adding its valuable data to our platform, we'll help our customers troubleshoot issues faster and reduce downtime that affects their business-critical operations."
Ilan Rabinovitch, Director of Product Management - Datadog