Amazon Pinpoint
Multichannel marketing communication service
Get started with Amazon Pinpoint
Contact sales for more information
Amazon Pinpoint is a flexible and scalable outbound and inbound marketing communications service. You can connect with customers over channels like email, SMS, push, or voice. Amazon Pinpoint is easy to set up, easy to use, and is flexible for all marketing communication scenarios. Segment your campaign audience for the right customer and personalize your messages with the right content. Delivery and campaign metrics in Amazon Pinpoint measure the success of your communications. Amazon Pinpoint can grow with you and scales globally to billions of messages per day across channels.
Introducing Amazon Pinpoint (1:14)
Benefits
Get started quickly
Whether you are a marketer or a developer, Amazon Pinpoint is flexible for marketing, bulk, or transactional communications use cases. Marketers can design, orchestrate, and run campaigns visually through the console. Developers can leverage the Amazon Pinpoint APIs for message sending, scheduling campaigns, or tracking web and mobile activities. Send across channels like email, SMS, or push notifications.
Segment and personalize for impact
Segment your audience for the right group of customers based on existing customer lists, attributes or use Amazon Pinpoint to create segments from mobile and web application data. Personalize the right message content to engage and delight your customers using both static and dynamic attributes. Marketers can also visually create a customer journey that automates multi-step campaigns.
Measure your efficiency
From message delivery results to campaign data like opens and clicks, use metrics to understand the success of your communications. Amazon Pinpoint updates your customer lists with results to reflect learnings for the next campaign. View the campaign metrics natively in the Amazon Pinpoint reports or stream data to nearly any destination.
Scale securely with the experts
Based on the scale and security of AWS, Amazon Pinpoint provides a reliable customer experience that can grow with you. Amazon has relationships with the top email providers, telecoms, and spam advisories to ensure the highest customer delivery rates.
How it works
Use cases
Marketing messages
Promote your products and services with basic templates or highly-personalized messages, including special offers, newsletters, and other engaging content. You can use Amazon Pinpoint to create targeted groups of customers, and then send them campaign-based messages. You can also design multi-step journeys for a complete customer experience with custom channels, email, SMS, or push notifications.
Transactional messages
Send immediate, trigger-based customer communications across channels directly from your application, such as purchase confirmations, one-time passwords, or shipping notifications. With SMS, you can receive messages back from your customers.
Bulk communications
Send messages to communities of millions, including notifications and announcements. After you send your messages, use the built-in analytics of Amazon Pinpoint to understand how your outreach impacted your business goals.
Customers
Snaq.me used Amazon Pinpoint for customer outreach through push and resulted in increased sales revenue.
Learn more
Gametime used Amazon Pinpoint to increase campaign capacity and customer conversions.
Learn more
Coinbase used Amazon Pinpoint to scale push notifications and decrease time to market.
Learn more
Top blog posts
Template personalization using Amazon Pinpoint
April 23, 2020
Learn more »
Using Amazon Pinpoint to send SMS messages in Amazon Connect
May 15, 2019
Learn more »
Create an SMS chatbot with Amazon Pinpoint and Lex
Sept 3, 2019
Learn more »
Visit the Messaging and Targeting blog to learn about unique use cases, best practices, technical deep dives, and new feature launches.
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Talk to an expert
Contact us to learn more about Amazon Pinpoint and how it can help your organization.
Contact us
Get started with a tutorial
Learn how to send an email campaign to a segment of customers by using the Amazon Pinpoint console.
Get started