AWS Mainframe Modernization (Preview)
Migrate, modernize, operate, and run mainframe workloads
Explore AWS Mainframe Modernization
Check out AWS MAP for Mainframe
Easily migrate and modernize your applications to eliminate the hardware and staffing costs of traditional mainframes.
Break up and manage your end-to-end migration with infrastructure, software, and tools to refactor and transform legacy applications.
Deploy, run, and operate migrated applications in the Mainframe Modernization environment with no upfront costs.
How it works
AWS Mainframe Modernization (Preview) is a set of managed tools providing infrastructure and software for migrating, modernizing, and executing mainframe applications.
Introducing AWS Mainframe Modernization | Amazon Web Services
What is AWS Mainframe Modernization?
AWS Mainframe Modernization is a unique platform that allows you to migrate your on-premises mainframe workloads to a managed runtime environment on AWS. Mainframe Modernization enables two popular migration patterns: replatforming and automated refactoring.
Use cases
Migrate mainframe workloads
Migrate faster by refactoring legacy language applications to Java-based services, or re-platforming mainframe applications.
Learn more about mainframe modernization
Create a migration plan
Assess your migration readiness and develop a clear strategy for legacy workloads using call graphs, dependency maps, and source searching.
Learn more about cloud migration
Scale DevOps best practices
Maintain, enhance, execute, and operate enterprise applications following DevOps best practices and reduce time-to-market.
Learn more about DevOps
How to get started
Accelerate migration with AWS MAP for Mainframe
The AWS Migration Acceleration Program for Mainframe (MAP) offers comprehensive migration support based on experience with thousands of enterprise customers.
Learn more
Track progress with AWS Migration Hub
Track application migration progress across multiple AWS Partners and solutions from a single location, and receive modernization strategy recommendations.
Explore the service
Engage Mainframe Migration Competency Partners
Take advantage of AWS Partners with in-depth  Mainframe Modernization knowledge.
Explore support options
Explore more of AWS