Amazon Corretto
No-cost, multiplatform, production-ready distribution of OpenJDK
Amazon Corretto is a no-cost, multiplatform, production-ready distribution of the Open Java Development Kit (OpenJDK). Corretto comes with long-term support that will include performance enhancements and security fixes. Amazon runs Corretto internally on thousands of production services and Corretto is certified as compatible with the Java SE standard. With Corretto, you can develop and run Java applications on popular operating systems, including Linux, Windows, and macOS.
Visit our documentation to learn more.
Download Amazon Corretto Now
Download Amazon Corretto 8
Download Amazon Corretto 11
Download Amazon Corretto 15
Benefits
Backed by Amazon
Amazon Corretto comes with no-cost long-term support from Amazon, so you can upgrade versions only when you need to. Amazon is committed to Corretto, running it internally on thousands of production services.
Production Ready
Amazon Corretto is certified to meet the Java SE standard and can be used as a drop-in replacement for many Java SE distributions. Amazon provides quarterly updates that include performance enhancements and security fixes critical for enterprise application development.
Multiplatform Support
Amazon Corretto lets you run the same environment in the cloud, on premises, and on your local machine. Corretto 8 supports Linux, Windows, macOS, and Docker and Corretto 11 supports Linux, Windows and macOS.
No Cost
Amazon Corretto is available for download and use at no cost. There are no additional paid features or restrictions.
Installation Guides for Corretto 8
Linux
Microsoft Windows
macOS
Docker
Installation Guides for Corretto 11
Blog posts
Amazon Corretto 8 Now Generally Available
Arun Gupta
1/31/2019
Introducing Amazon Corretto, a No-Cost Distribution of OpenJDK with LTS
Arun Gupta 11/14/2018
Videos
Online Tech Talk: Introducing Amazon Corretto
Introducing Amazon Corretto at Devoxx
Amazon Corretto Annoucement at Devoxx
AWS re:Invent 2019: Migrating AWS Lambda's front end from Java 8 to Java 11
Learnings from migrating a production service from JDK 8 to JDK 11
Download Now
Visit our documentation