AWS IoT Core
Easily and securely connect devices to the cloud. Reliably scale to billions of devices and trillions of messages.
Get started with IoT Core for free
What is AWS IoT Core?
AWS IoT Core lets you connect IoT devices to the AWS cloud without the need to provision or manage servers. AWS IoT Core can support billions of devices and trillions of messages, and can process and route those messages to AWS endpoints and to other devices reliably and securely. With AWS IoT Core, your applications can keep track of and communicate with all your devices, all the time, even when they aren’t connected.
AWS IoT Core also makes it easy to use AWS and Amazon services like AWS Lambda, Amazon Kinesis, Amazon S3, Amazon SageMaker, Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon CloudWatch, AWS CloudTrail, Amazon QuickSight, and Alexa Voice Service to build IoT applications that gather, process, analyze and act on data generated by connected devices, without having to manage any infrastructure.
Benefits
Connect and manage devices without managing servers
AWS IoT Core allows you to connect any number of devices to the cloud and to other devices without requiring you to provision or manage servers. AWS IoT Core allows you to scale your device fleets easily and reliably.
Choose your preferred connection protocol
AWS IoT Core lets you select the communication protocol most appropriate for your use case to connect and manage IoT devices. AWS IoT Core supports MQTT (Message Queuing and Telemetry Transport), HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol - Secure), MQTT over WSS (WebSockets Secure), and LoRaWAN (low-power long-range wide-area network).
For devices and clients that use MQTT, MQTT over WSS, and HTTP protocols, AWS IoT Core Message Broker provides a high-throughput publish/subscribe message broker to transmit messages to and from all of your IoT devices and applications. For LoRaWAN devices, AWS IoT Core for LoRaWAN provides a managed capability that eliminates the need for you to develop or operate a LoRaWAN Network Server (LNS).
Secure device connections and data
AWS IoT Core provides automated configuration and authentication upon a device’s first connection to AWS IoT Core, as well as end-to-end encryption throughout all points of connection, so that data is never exchanged between devices and AWS IoT Core without proven identity. In addition, you can secure access to your devices and applications by applying policies with granular permissions.
Process and act upon device data
With AWS IoT Core, you can filter, transform, and act upon device data on the fly, based on business rules you define. You can update your rules to implement new device and application features at any time. AWS IoT Core makes it easy to use AWS services like AWS Lambda, Amazon Kinesis, Amazon S3, Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon CloudWatch, and Amazon Elasticsearch Service for even more powerful IoT applications.
AWS IoT Core capabilities
Publish and subscribe to messages with message broker
The Message Broker is a high throughput publish/subscribe (pub/sub) message broker that securely transmits messages to and from all of your IoT devices and applications with low latency. AWS IoT Core supports devices and clients that use the MQTT and the MQTT over WSS protocols to pub/sub to messages, and devices and clients that use the HTTPS protocol to publish messages.
Mirror device state
With Device Shadow, AWS IoT Core stores the latest state of a connected device so that it can be read or set at any time, making the device appear to your applications as if it were online all the time. This means that your application can read a device’s state even when it is disconnected, and also enables you to set a device state and have it implemented when the device reconnects.
To learn more, visit the AWS IoT Core Developer Guide.
Build Alexa Built-in devices cost-effectively at scale
The Alexa Voice Service (AVS) Integration for AWS IoT Core introduces a new virtual Alexa Built-in device in the cloud. To use the AVS Integration, customers use a new set of AWS IoT-reserved MQTT topics to transfer MQTT-based audio messages between devices connected to AWS IoT Core and the new virtual Alexa Built-in device. This allows customers to send and receive audio messages over the reserved MQTT topics, interface with the device microphone and speaker, and manage the device-side state all while using the same secure AWS IoT Core connection.
To learn more, visit AVS Integration for AWS IoT Core.
Connect and manage LoRaWAN devices
AWS IoT Core for LoRaWAN enables customers to setup a private LoRaWAN network by connecting their own LoRaWAN devices and gateways to the AWS cloud - without developing or operating a LoRaWAN Network Server (LNS).
To learn more, visit AWS IoT Core for LoRaWAN
Get started with AWS
Sign up for an AWS account
Instantly get access to the
AWS Free Tier.
Learn with 10-minute tutorials
Explore and learn with
simple tutorials.
Start building with AWS
Begin building with step-by-step guides to help you launch your
AWS project.
LoRaWAN is a mark used under license from the LoRa Alliance.
Learn more about AWS IoT Core
Visit the features page
Ready to build?
Get started with AWS IoT Core
Have more questions?
Contact us