Amazon Managed Grafana
Scalable, secure, and highly available data visualization for your operational metrics, logs, and traces
Get started with Amazon Managed Grafana
Amazon Managed Grafana is a fully managed service for open source Grafana developed in collaboration with Grafana Labs. Grafana is a popular open source analytics platform that enables you to query, visualize, alert on and understand your metrics no matter where they are stored.
With Amazon Managed Grafana, you can analyze your metrics, logs, and traces without having to provision servers, configure and update software, or do the heavy lifting involved in securing and scaling Grafana in production. You can create, explore, and share observability dashboards with your team, and spend less time managing your Grafana infrastructure and more time improving the health, performance, and availability of your applications. Connect Amazon Managed Grafana to multiple data sources in your observability stack, including AWS data sources like Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus, Amazon CloudWatch, and Amazon Elasticsearch Service, third-party ISVs like Datadog and Splunk, and self-managed data sources like InfluxDB. Amazon Managed Grafana natively integrates with AWS services so you can securely add, query, visualize, and analyze your AWS data across multiple accounts and Regions with a few clicks in the AWS Console.
How to use Amazon Managed Grafana with Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus (3:54)
Benefits
Enjoy the power of Grafana at scale
Amazon Managed Grafana builds, packages, and deploys workspaces for you, and manages their provisioning, setup, scaling, and maintenance, so you don’t have to. You can then create Grafana dashboards and visualizations in each workspace to analyze your metrics, logs, and traces. With Amazon Managed Grafana, you create Grafana workspaces where you can define user access and policy controls for data sources that you specify.
Visualize, analyze, and correlate securely across multiple data sources
Amazon Managed Grafana natively integrates with AWS data sources that collect operational data, discovering the resources in your AWS account or across your Organizational Units, and automatically provisions the right AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies to access your data. AWS data sources include Amazon CloudWatch, Amazon Elasticsearch Service, AWS X-Ray, AWS IoT SiteWise, Amazon Timestream, and Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus. You can query these data sources across multiple AWS accounts and Regions. Amazon Managed Grafana also supports popular third-party data sources such as Graphite, InfluxDB, and more.
Secure access to data and dashboards
Amazon Managed Grafana integrates with multiple AWS security services and supports AWS Single Sign-On as well as Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0 to meet your corporate security and compliance requirements. When setting up a workspace in Amazon Managed Grafana, you can grant users in your corporate directory access to specific dashboards and data sources, and control their read/write access without having to manage multiple user identity pools. You can track changes made to workspaces for compliance and audit logging, and third-party auditors can assess security and compliance as part of multiple AWS compliance programs, such as AWS CloudTrail logs.
Migrate from self-managed Grafana, easily
No need to start from scratch when migrating from your existing Grafana environment. Use Amazon Managed Grafana APIs to easily create new Grafana workspaces within minutes. And you can use Grafana APIs to programmatically create, delete, or import your Grafana dashboards – you don’t have to re-create dashboard definitions that you’ve already built and perfected.
Get started quickly with pre-built dashboards
After selecting your data source, you can choose from a variety of pre-built visualizations to quickly start analyzing metrics, logs, and traces without having to build a dashboard from scratch. Amazon Managed Grafana offers a variety of visualizations across a broad set of data sources.
Access third-party Enterprise data source plugins
With one click, you can upgrade to Grafana Enterprise license and gain access to a variety of their third-party Enterprise data source plugins, including AppDynamics, Atlassian Jira, Datadog, Dynatrace, Gitlab, Honeycomb, MongoDB, NewRelic, Oracle Database, Salesforce, SAP HANA, ServiceNow, VMware Tanzu Observability by Wavefront, and Snowflake.
How it works
Use cases
Unified observability
Amazon Managed Grafana enables you to query and correlate metrics, logs, and traces that are collected and stored in different tools and then view and analyze them in a single visualization or dashboard. This makes it easier to monitor your applications and troubleshoot operational issues. You can query, correlate, and build a single dashboard with container metrics from Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus, logs and traces from Amazon Elasticsearch Service, observability data from Amazon CloudWatch, and operational data from third-party and other cloud vendors.
Container monitoring
Using Amazon Managed Grafana, you can query, correlate, and visualize container metrics from Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service, Amazon Elastic Container Service, and self-managed Kubernetes running on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud. Simply use Amazon Managed Grafana to connect to container metrics data sources such as Amazon Managed Service for Prometheus, open source Prometheus, Amazon CloudWatch, as well as other self-managed and third-party ISV data sources.
One dashboard, multiple users
Amazon Managed Grafana supports a wide variety of data sources that enable users of all types to layer operational and business data into a consolidated view. Builders and developers can track their application logs alongside an operator’s infrastructure health metrics, as well as business metrics for key stakeholders, all displayed in a single dashboard using a rich library of interactive visualizations.
Troubleshoot operational issues collaboratively
Teams and users can view and edit dashboards in real time, track dashboard version changes, and share dashboards with related teams and executive stakeholders to ensure that everyone is viewing the same data while troubleshooting operational issues. Amazon Managed Grafana allows flexible dashboard sharing, from creating snapshots that can be shared publicly, to inviting team members to a shared dashboard.
IoT monitoring
Grafana’s extensible data plugin architecture and flexible graphing options make it popular for monitoring IoT and edge device data, such as earthquake sensor battery levels, manufacturing robot metrics, or energy utility status checks. Amazon Managed Grafana natively integrates with Amazon IoT SiteWise and Amazon Timestream as data sources for IoT data visualization.
Software development lifecycle monitoring
With an optional upgrade to Grafana Enterprise, you get access to more third-party plugins that provide software development lifecycle monitoring capabilities, such as ServiceNow and Atlassian Jira. Using these plugins, you can pull incident details and software development lifecycle artifacts into Amazon Managed Grafana, track incident status, pull requests, and code commits, as well as monitor software releases alongside their application health and performance data, all in one place.
Featured customers
Area52, a technology company focused on material handling and food processing innovation, is a leader in advanced automation technologies and data analytics that helps its customers create more yield and perform rapid root cause analysis to find ways to optimize production pipelines.
“We needed a solution to graph process data from industrial IoT devices and various supporting systems for customers operating in seafood processing and other industrial markets,” said
Tim Fogarty, founder, Area52. “We chose Amazon Managed Grafana because it allowed us to graph and visualize data for our customers without complex IT integrations. Now, we’re able to more easily track key metrics across our customers’ operations and create proactive alarm notifications if capacity and utilization targets are missed so we can help our customers course correct to meet their production goals.”
View all customers
Check out the product features
Learn more about Amazon Managed Grafana data visualization service features.
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building on the console
Get started building with Amazon Managed Grafana in the AWS Management Console.
Sign in