« Analytics
Amazon EMR
Easily run and scale Apache Spark, Hive, Presto, and other big data workloads
Get Started with Amazon EMR
Request support for your evaluation
Run big data applications and petabyte-scale data analytics faster, and at less than half the cost of on-premises solutions.
Build applications using the latest open-source frameworks, with options to run on customized Amazon EC2 clusters, Amazon EKS, AWS Outposts, or Amazon EMR Serverless.
Get up to 2X faster time-to-insights with performance-optimized and open-source API-compatible versions of Spark, Hive, and Presto.
Easily develop, visualize, and debug your applications using EMR Notebooks and familiar open-source tools in EMR Studio.
How it works
Amazon EMR is a cloud big data platform for running large-scale distributed data processing jobs, interactive SQL queries, and machine learning (ML) applications using open-source analytics frameworks such as Apache Spark, Apache Hive, and Presto.
Close
Click to enlarge
Use cases
Perform big data analytics
Run large-scale data processing and what-if analysis using statistical algorithms and predictive models to uncover hidden patterns, correlations, market trends, and customer preferences.
Build scalable data pipelines
Extract data from a variety of sources, process it at scale, and make it available for applications and users.
Process real-time data streams
Analyze events from streaming data sources in real-time to create long-running, highly available, and fault-tolerant streaming data pipelines.
Accelerate data science and ML adoption
Analyze data using open-source ML frameworks such as Apache Spark MLlib, TensorFlow, and Apache MXNet. Connect to Amazon SageMaker Studio for large-scale model training, analysis, and reporting.
Customers
Integral Ad Sciences processes big data with Amazon EMR
Learn how Nielsen built a cloud-native data reporting platform
Paytm streamlines big data processing with Amazon EMR
Learn how Redfin manages billions of property records
How to get started
Find out how Amazon EMR works
Learn more about provisioning clusters, scaling resources, configuring high availability, and more.
Explore Amazon EMR features
Explore Amazon EMR pricing
Pay per second with options to run EMR clusters on Amazon EC2, Amazon EKS, AWS Outposts, or Amazon EMR Serverless.
Learn more about Amazon EMR pricing
Get started with Amazon EMR
Learn about real-time stream processing, large-scale machine learning, and more using EMR.
Check out Amazon EMR tutorials
Explore more of AWS