Amazon S3 Glacier & S3 Glacier Deep Archive
Long-term, secure, durable Amazon S3 object storage classes for data archiving, starting at $1 per terabyte per month
Get Started with Amazon S3
Amazon S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive are a secure, durable, and extremely low-cost Amazon S3 cloud storage classes for data archiving and long-term backup. They are designed to deliver 99.999999999% durability, and provide comprehensive security and compliance capabilities that can help meet even the most stringent regulatory requirements. Customers can store data for as little as $1 per terabyte per month, a significant savings compared to on-premises solutions. To keep costs low yet suitable for varying retrieval needs, Amazon S3 Glacier provides three options for access to archives, from a few minutes to several hours, and S3 Glacier Deep Archive provides two access options ranging from 12 to 48 hours.
Introduction to Amazon S3 Glacier - 2:29
Benefits
RETRIEVALS AS QUICK AS 1-5 MINUTES
The Amazon S3 Glacier storage class provides three retrieval options to fit your use case. Expedited retrievals typically return data in 1-5 minutes, and are great for Active Archive use cases. Standard retrievals typically complete between 3-5 hours, and work well for less time-sensitive needs like backup data, media editing, or long-term analytics. Bulk retrievals are the lowest-cost retrieval option, returning large amounts of data within 5-12 hours. The Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage class provides two retrieval options ranging from 12-48 hours.
Learn More About the Amazon S3 Glacier Retrieval Options
Learn More about Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive Retrieval Options
UNMATCHED DURABILITY & SCALABILITY
The Amazon S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage classes run on the world’s largest global cloud infrastructure, and were designed for 99.999999999% of durability. Data is automatically distributed across a minimum of three physical Availability Zones that are geographically separated within an AWS Region.
Learn More About the AWS Global Cloud Infrastructure
MOST COMPREHENSIVE SECURITY & COMPLIANCE CAPABILITIES
The Amazon S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage classes offer sophisticated integration with AWS CloudTrail to log, monitor and retain storage API call activities for auditing, and supports three different forms of encryption. These storage classes also support security standards and compliance certifications including SEC Rule 17a-4, PCI-DSS, HIPAA/HITECH, FedRAMP, EU GDPR, and FISMA, and Amazon S3 Object Lock enables WORM storage capabilities, helping satisfy compliance requirements for virtually every regulatory agency around the globe.
Learn More About Security
Learn More About Compliance
LOW COST
Amazon S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive are designed to be the lowest cost Amazon S3 storage classes, allowing you to archive large amounts of data at a very low cost. This makes it feasible to retain all the data you want for use cases like data lakes, analytics, IoT, machine learning, compliance, and media asset archiving. You pay only for what you need, with no minimum commitments or up-front fees.
Amazon S3 Pricing Details
MOST SUPPORTED BY PARTNERS, VENDORS, & AWS SERVICES
In addition to integration with most AWS services, Amazon S3 object storage services include tens of thousands of consulting, systems integrator and independent software vendor partners, with more joining every month. AWS Partner Network partners have adapted their services and software to work with Amazon S3 storage classes for solutions like Backup & Recovery, Archiving, and Disaster Recovery. No other cloud provider has more partners with solutions that are pre-integrated to work with their service.
Learn More About AWS Storage Partners
Use cases
MEDIA ASSET WORKFLOWS
Media assets such as video and news footage require durable storage and can grow to many petabytes over time. The Amazon S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage classes allow you to archive older media content affordably then move it to Amazon S3 for distribution when needed.
HEALTHCARE INFORMATION ARCHIVING
Hospital systems need to retain petabytes of patient records (LIS, PACS, EHR, etc.) for decades to meet regulatory requirements. The Amazon S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage classes help you reliably archive patient record data securely at a very low cost.
REGULATORY AND COMPLIANCE ARCHIVING
Many enterprises like Financial Services and Healthcare must retain regulatory and compliance archives for extended durations. Amazon S3 Object Lock helps you set compliance controls to meet your objectives, such as SEC Rule 17a-4(f).
SCIENTIFIC DATA STORAGE
Research organizations generate, analyze, and archive vast amounts of data. With the Amazon S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage classes, you avoid the complexities of hardware and facility management and capacity planning.
DIGITAL PRESERVATION
Libraries and government agencies face data-integrity challenges in their digital preservation efforts. Unlike traditional systems, which can require laborious data verification and manual repair, Amazon S3 performs regular, systematic data integrity checks and is built to be automatically self-healing.
MAGNETIC TAPE REPLACEMENT
On-premises or offsite tape libraries can lower storage costs but require large upfront investments and specialized maintenance. The Amazon S3 Glacier and S3 Glacier Deep Archive storage classes have no upfront cost and eliminate the cost and burden of maintenance.
Case studies
Sony DADC New Media Solutions moves its complete 20-petabyte video archive from LTO tape to Amazon S3
Celgene uses Amazon S3 to store hundreds of terabytes of genomic data.
Soundcloud uses Amazon S3 to store and process massive data sets every day.
King County saved $1M in the first year after replacing tapes with Amazon S3.
Illumina uploads and stores massive genomics datasets in Amazon S3 cloud archive storage.
Blog posts & articles
WHAT'S NEW AWS Announces the General Availability of the Amazon S3 Glacier Deep Archive Storage Class in all Commercial AWS Regions and AWS GovCloud (US) 27 MAR 2019
Learn more
AWS ARCHITECTURE BLOG S3 & S3 Glacier Launch Announcements for Archival Workloads by Matt Sidley | 26 NOV 2018
Get started with the Amazon S3
Sign up for an AWS account
Instantly get access to the
AWS Free Tier.
Learn with 10-minute Tutorials
Explore and learn with
simple tutorials.
Start building with AWS
Begin building with step-by-step guides to help you launch your
AWS project.
Learn more about Amazon S3 features
Visit the features page
Ready to get started?
Sign up
Have more questions?
Contact us