AWS IoT Greengrass
Bring local compute, messaging, data management, sync, and ML inference capabilities to edge devices
Get Started with AWS IoT Greengrass
AWS IoT Greengrass seamlessly extends AWS to edge devices so they can act locally on the data they generate, while still using the cloud for management, analytics, and durable storage. With AWS IoT Greengrass, connected devices can run AWS Lambda functions, Docker containers, or both, execute predictions based on machine learning models, keep device data in sync, and communicate with other devices securely – even when not connected to the Internet.
With AWS IoT Greengrass, you can use familiar languages and programming models to create and test your device software in the cloud, and then deploy it to your devices. AWS IoT Greengrass can be programmed to filter device data, manage the lifecycle of that data on the device, and only transmit necessary information back to AWS. You can also connect to third-party applications, on-premises software, and AWS services out-of-the-box with AWS IoT Greengrass Connectors. Connectors also jumpstart device onboarding with pre-built protocol adapter integrations and allow you to streamline authentication via integration with AWS Secrets Manager.
Getting started with AWS IoT Greengrass (1:34)
Benefits
Respond to local events in near real-time
AWS IoT Greengrass devices can act locally on the data they generate so they can respond quickly to local events, while still using the cloud for management, analytics, and durable storage. The local resource access feature allows AWS Lambda functions deployed on AWS IoT Greengrass Core devices to use local device resources like cameras, serial ports, or GPUs so that device applications can quickly access and process local data.
Operate offline
AWS IoT Greengrass lets connected devices operate even with intermittent connectivity to the cloud. AWS IoT Greengrass devices can collect, process, and export data streams, whether they are online or offline. When the device reconnects, AWS IoT Greengrass synchronizes the data on the device with cloud services such as AWS IoT Core, AWS IoT Analytics, or Amazon Kinesis, providing seamless functionality regardless of connectivity.
Secure communication
AWS IoT Greengrass authenticates and encrypts device data for both local and cloud communications so that data is never exchanged between devices and the cloud without proven identity. You can also leverage hardware-secured end-to-end encryption for messages sent between an AWS IoT Greengrass Core and the AWS cloud, and messages between an AWS IoT Greengrass Core and other local devices using the AWS IoT Device SDK.
Simplified device programming with container support
You can develop code in the cloud and then deploy it seamlessly to your devices with AWS Lambda, Docker containers, or both. AWS IoT Greengrass lets you execute AWS Lambda functions locally, reducing the complexity of developing embedded software. You can also deploy, run, and manage Docker containers on AWS IoT Greengrass devices.
Reduce the cost of running IoT applications
You can get rich insights at a lower cost by programming your device to filter or aggregate data locally and only transmit the data you need for your applications to the cloud. This reduces the amount of raw data transmitted to the cloud, minimizing cost and increasing the quality of the data you send to the cloud.
Validate your AWS IoT Greengrass devices
AWS IoT Device Tester for AWS IoT Greengrass is a test automation tool that makes testing your choice of devices easy. You can use the AWS IoT Device Tester to confidently self-test if your devices will run AWS IoT Greengrass and interoperate with AWS IoT services. You can use the AWS Partner Device Catalog to browse and buy devices that have been qualified by AWS to work optimally with AWS IoT Greengrass.
How it works
AWS IoT Greengrass lets you build IoT solutions that connect different types of devices with the cloud and each other. Devices that run Linux, including distributions such as Ubuntu and Raspbian, and support Arm or x86 architectures can host the AWS IoT Greengrass Core. The AWS IoT Greengrass Core enables the local execution of AWS Lambda code, messaging, data management, and security. Devices running AWS IoT Greengrass Core act as a hub that can communicate with other devices that are running FreeRTOS or have the AWS IoT Device SDK installed. These devices could vary in size, from smaller microcontroller-based devices to large appliances. AWS IoT Greengrass Core devices, AWS IoT Device SDK-enabled devices, and FreeRTOS devices can be configured to communicate with one another in an AWS IoT Greengrass group. If the AWS IoT Greengrass Core device loses connectivity to the cloud, devices in the AWS IoT Greengrass group can continue to communicate with each other over the local network. An AWS IoT Greengrass group may represent one floor of a building, one truck, or an entire mining site.
AWS IoT Greengrass provides pre-built connectors so you can easily extend edge device functionality without writing code. AWS IoT Greengrass Connectors enable you to quickly connect to third-party applications, on-premises software, and AWS services at the edge.
AWS IoT Greengrass provides hardware root of trust private key storage for edge devices. You can use AWS IoT Greengrass capabilities alongside hardware-secured message encryption.
Featured customers
Ecofit
Ecofit uses AWS IoT Greengrass to gather gym equipment data to better maintain equipment and extend life of assets.
Cradlewise
Cradlewise uses AWS IoT Greengrass to ensure its smart crib can keep devices operating in offline mode.
Featured partners
"At ADLINK, the scope of our partner offerings is key to building the best solution to solve each customer’s specific business problem. Container support for AWS IoT Greengrass is an exciting leap forward for our customers to deploy diverse workloads on AWS IoT Greengrass without rewriting code and continue to develop new applications in languages and environments familiar to development teams."
Toby McClean, VP, IoT Solutions & Technology Innovation - ADLINK
"Docker and AWS are collaborating on our shared vision of how workloads can be more easily deployed to edge devices. Docker's industry-leading container technology including Docker Desktop and Docker Hub are integral to advancing developer workflows for modern apps and IoT solutions. Our customers can now deploy and run Docker containers seamlessly on AWS IoT Greengrass devices, enabling development teams to ship apps faster and accelerate the migration of apps from the data center to the cloud, and now to edge devices."
David Messina, EVP Strategic Alliances - Docker
Check out the device tester
Self-test if your devices will run AWS IoT Greengrass and interoperate with AWS IoT services.
Learn more
Sign up for a free account
Instantly get access to the AWS Free Tier.
Sign up
Start building in the console
Get started building with AWS IoT Greengrass in the AWS Console.
Sign in
Learn more about AWS IoT Greengrass
Visit the features page
Ready to build?
Get started with AWS IoT Greengrass
Have more questions?
Contact us